挪亞的兒子閃、含、雅弗的後代、記在下面．洪水以後、他們都生了兒子。
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.
雅弗的兒子是歌篾、瑪各、瑪代、雅完、土巴、米設、提拉、
The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
歌篾的兒子是亞實基拿、利法、陀迦瑪．
And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
雅完的兒子是以利沙、他施、基提、多單、
And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
這些人的後裔、將各國的地土、海島、分開居住、各隨各的方言宗族立國。
By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
含的兒子是古實、麥西、弗、迦南、
And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.
古實的兒子是西巴、哈腓拉、撒弗他、拉瑪、撒弗提迦、拉瑪的兒子是示巴、底但。
And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.
古實又生寧錄、他為世上英雄之首．
And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.
他在耶和華面前是個英勇的獵戶、所以俗語說、像寧錄在耶和華面前是個英勇的獵戶。
He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.
他國的起頭是巴別、以力、亞甲、甲尼、都在示拿地。
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
他從那地出來往亞述去、建造尼尼微、利河伯、迦拉、
Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah,
和尼尼微、迦拉中間的利鮮、這就是那大城。
And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: the same is a great city.
麥西生路低人、亞拿米人、利哈比人、拿弗土希人、
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
帕斯魯細人、迦斯路希人、迦斐託人、從迦斐託出來的有非利士人。
And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and Caphtorim.
迦南生長子西頓、又生赫、
And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth,
和耶布斯人、亞摩利人、革迦撒人、
And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite,
希未人、亞基人、西尼人、
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
亞瓦底人、洗瑪利人、哈馬人、後來迦南的諸族分散了。
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.
迦南的境界是從西頓向基拉耳的路上、直到迦薩、又向所多瑪、蛾摩拉、押瑪、洗扁的路上、直到拉沙．
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.
這就是含的後裔、各隨他們的宗族、方言、所住的地土、邦國。
These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.
雅弗的哥哥閃、是希伯子孫之祖．他也生了兒子。
Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.
閃的兒子是以攔、亞述、亞法撒、路德、亞蘭。
The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.
亞蘭的兒子是烏斯、戶勒、基帖、瑪施。
And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
亞法撒生沙拉、沙拉生希伯、
And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.
希伯生了兩個兒子、一個名叫法勒、〔法勒就是分的意思〕、因為那時人就分地居住．法勒的兄弟名叫約坍。
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
約坍生亞摩答、沙列、哈薩瑪非、耶拉、
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
哈多蘭、烏薩、德拉、
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
俄巴路、亞比瑪利、示巴、
And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
阿斐、哈腓拉、約巴、這都是約坍的兒子。
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan.
他們所住的地方、是從米沙、直到西發東邊的山。
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east.
這就是閃的子孫、各隨他們的宗族、方言、所住的地土、邦國。
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.
這些都是挪亞三個兒子的宗族、各隨他們的支派立國、洪水以後、他們在地上分為邦國。
These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.
