那時、天下人的口音言語、都是一樣。
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.
他們往東邊遷移的時候、在示拿地遇見一片平原、就住在那裡。
And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.
他們彼此商量說、來罷、我們要作磚、把磚燒透了。他們就拿磚當石頭、又拿石漆當灰泥。
And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter.
他們說、來罷、我們要建造一座城、和一座塔、塔頂通天、為要傳揚我們的名、免得我們分散在全地上。
And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.
耶和華降臨要看看世人所建造的城和塔。
And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded.
耶和華說、看哪、他們成為一樣的人民、都是一樣的言語、如今既作起這事來、以後他們所要作的事、就沒有不成就的了。
And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.
我們下去、在那裡變亂他們的口音、使他們的言語、彼此不通。
Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech.
於是耶和華使他們從那裡分散在全地上．他們就停工、不造那城了。
So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city.
因為耶和華在那裡變亂天下人的言語、使眾人分散在全地上、所以那城名叫巴別。〔就是變亂的意思〕
Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.
閃的後代記在下面．洪水以後二年、閃一百歲生了亞法撒。
These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood:
閃生亞法撒之後、又活了五百年．並且生兒養女。
And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
亞法撒活到三十五歲、生了沙拉．
And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah:
亞法撒生沙拉之後、又活了四百零三年．並且生兒養女。
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.
沙拉活到三十歲、生了希伯．
And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber:
沙拉生希伯之後、又活了四百零三年．並且生兒養女。
And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.
希伯活到三十四歲、生了法勒．
And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg:
希伯生法勒之後、又活了四百三十年．並且生兒養女。
And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.
法勒活到三十歲、生了拉吳．
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:
法勒生拉吳之後、又活了二百零九年．並且生兒養女。
And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters.
拉吳活到三十二歲、生了西鹿．
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug:
拉吳生西鹿之後、又活了二百零七年．並且生兒養女。
And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters.
西鹿活到三十歲、生了拿鶴．
And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor:
西鹿生拿鶴之後、又活了二百年．並且生兒養女。
And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.
拿鶴活到二十九歲、生了他拉．
And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah:
拿鶴生他拉之後、又活了一百一十九年．並且生兒養女。
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters.
他拉活到七十歲、生了亞伯蘭、拿鶴、哈蘭。
And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
他拉的後代、記在下面．他拉生亞伯蘭、拿鶴、哈蘭．哈蘭生羅得。
Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.
哈蘭死在他的本地迦勒底的吾珥、在他父親他拉之先。
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.
亞伯蘭、拿鶴、各娶了妻．亞伯蘭的妻子名叫撒萊．拿鶴的妻子名叫密迦、是哈蘭的女兒．哈蘭是密迦和亦迦的父親。
And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
撒萊不生育、沒有孩子。
But Sarai was barren; she had no child.
他拉帶著他兒子亞伯蘭、和他孫子哈蘭的兒子羅得、並他兒婦亞伯蘭的妻子撒萊、出了迦勒底的吾珥、要往迦南地去、他們走到哈蘭就住在那裡。
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.
他拉共活了二百零五歲、就死在哈蘭。
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.
