耶和華對亞伯蘭說、你要離開本地、本族、父家、往我所要指示你的地去。
Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee:
我必叫你成為大國．我必賜福給你、叫你的名為大、你也要叫別人得福．
And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:
為你祝福的、我必賜福與他、那咒詛你的、我必咒詛他、地上的萬族都要因你得福。
And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.
亞伯蘭就照著耶和華的吩咐去了．羅得也和他同去．亞伯蘭出哈蘭的時候、年七十五歲。
So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.
亞伯蘭將他妻子撒萊、和姪兒羅得、連他們在哈蘭所積蓄的財物、所得的人口、都帶往迦南地去．他們就到了迦南地。
And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
亞伯蘭經過那地、到了示劍地方摩利橡樹那裡．那時迦南人住在那地。
And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.
耶和華向亞伯蘭顯現、說、我要把這地賜給你的後裔．亞伯蘭就在那裡為向他顯現的耶和華築了一座壇。
And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who appeared unto him.
從那裡他又遷到伯特利東邊的山、支搭帳棚．西邊是伯特利、東邊是艾．他在那裡又為耶和華築了一座壇、求告耶和華的名。
And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD.
後來亞伯蘭又漸漸遷往南地去。
And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.
那地遭遇饑荒、因饑荒甚大、亞伯蘭就下埃及去、要在那裡暫居。
And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.
將近埃及就對他妻子撒萊說、我知道你是容貌俊美的婦人．
And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon:
埃及人看見你必說、這是他的妻子、他們就要殺我、卻叫你存活。
Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
求你說、你是我的妹子、使我因你得平安、我的命也因你存活。
Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.
及至亞伯蘭到了埃及、埃及人看見那婦人極其美貌。
And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.
法老的臣宰看見了他、就在法老面前誇獎他．那婦人就被帶進法老的宮去。
The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
法老因這婦人就厚待亞伯蘭、亞伯蘭得了許多牛、羊、駱駝、公驢、母驢、僕婢。
And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels.
耶和華因亞伯蘭妻子撒萊的緣故、降大災與法老和他的全家。
And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram's wife.
法老就召了亞伯蘭來、說、你這向我作的是甚麼事呢、為甚麼沒有告訴我他是你的妻子．
And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?
為甚麼說、他是你的妹子、以致我把他取來要作我的妻子．現在你的妻子在這裡、可以帶他走罷。
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.
於是法老吩咐人將亞伯蘭和他妻子、並他所有的都送走了。
And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.
