當暗拉非作示拿王、亞略作以拉撒王、基大老瑪作以攔王、提達作戈印王的時候、
And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations;
他們都攻打所多瑪王比拉、蛾摩拉王比沙、押瑪王示納、洗扁王善以別、和比拉王．比拉就是瑣珥。
That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.
這五王都在西訂谷會合．西訂谷就是鹽海。
All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is the salt sea.
他們已經事奉基大老瑪十二年、到十三年就背叛了。
Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
十四年基大老瑪和同盟的王、都來在亞特律加寧、殺敗了利乏音人、在哈麥殺敗了蘇西人、在沙微基列亭殺敗了以米人、
And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzims in Ham, and the Emims in Shaveh Kiriathaim,
在何利人的西珥山殺敗了何利人、一直殺到靠近曠野的伊勒巴蘭。
And the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.
他們回到安密巴、就是加低斯、殺敗了亞瑪力全地的人、以及住在哈洗遜他瑪的亞摩利人。
And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that dwelt in Hazezontamar.
於是所多瑪王、蛾摩拉王、押瑪王、洗扁王、和比拉王、（比拉就是瑣珥）都出來、在西訂谷擺陣、與他們交戰．
And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim;
就是與以攔王基大老瑪、戈印王提達、示拿王暗拉非、以拉撒王亞略交戰．乃是四王與五王交戰。
With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with five.
西訂谷有許多石漆坑．所多瑪王、和蛾摩拉王逃跑、有掉在坑裡的、其餘的人都往山上逃跑。
And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled to the mountain.
四王就把所多瑪和蛾摩拉所有的財物、並一切的糧食、都擄掠去了。
And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way.
又把亞伯蘭的姪兒羅得、和羅得的財物擄掠去了．當時、羅得正住在所多瑪。
And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.
有一個逃出來的人、告訴希伯來人亞伯蘭．亞伯蘭正住在亞摩利人幔利的橡樹那裡．幔利和以實各、並亞乃都是弟兄、曾與亞伯蘭聯盟。
And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.
亞伯蘭聽見他姪兒〔原文作弟兄〕被擄去、就率領他家裡生養的精練壯丁三百一十八人、直追到但．
And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.
便在夜間、自己同僕人分隊殺敗敵人、又追到大馬色左邊的何把．
And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus.
將被擄掠的一切財物奪回來、連他姪兒羅得和他的財物、以及婦女人民、也都奪回來。
And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.
亞伯蘭殺敗基大老瑪、和與他同盟的王回來的時候、所多瑪王出來、在沙微谷迎接他、沙微谷就是王谷。
And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.
所多瑪王對亞伯蘭說、你把人口給我、財物你自己拿去罷。
And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself.
凡是你的東西、就是一根線、一根鞋帶、我都不拿、免得你說、我使亞伯蘭富足．
That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich:
只有僕人所喫的、並與我同行的亞乃、以實各、幔利、所應得的分、可以任憑他們拿去。
Save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.
