這事以後、耶和華在異象中有話對亞伯蘭說、亞伯蘭你不要懼怕、我是你的盾牌、必大大的賞賜你。
After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward.
亞伯蘭又說、你沒有給我兒子、那生在我家中的人、就是我的後嗣。
And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo, one born in my house is mine heir.
耶和華又有話對他說、這人必不成為你的後嗣、你本身所生的、纔成為你的後嗣。
And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.
於是領他走到外邊、說、你向天觀看、數算眾星、能數得過來麼．又對他說、你的後裔將要如此。
And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.
亞伯蘭信耶和華、耶和華就以此為他的義。
And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for righteousness.
耶和華又對他說、我是耶和華、曾領你出了迦勒底的吾珥、為要將這地賜你為業。
And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.
他說、你為我取一隻三年的母牛、一隻三年的母山羊、一隻三年的公綿羊、一隻斑鳩、一隻雛鴿。
And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon.
亞伯蘭就取了這些來、每樣劈開分成兩半、一半對著一半的擺列、只有鳥沒有劈開。
And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.
有鷙鳥下來落在那死畜的肉上、亞伯蘭就把他嚇飛了。
And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them away.
日頭正落的時候、亞伯蘭沉沉的睡了．忽然有驚人的大黑暗落在他身上。
And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.
耶和華對亞伯蘭說、你要的確知道、你的後裔必寄居別人的地、又服事那地的人．那地的人要苦待他們四百年．
And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;
並且他們所要服事的那國、我要懲罰．後來他們必帶著許多財物、從那裡出來。
And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.
但你要享大壽數、平平安安的歸到你列祖那裡、被人埋葬。
And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age.
到了第四代、他們必回到此地、因為亞摩利人的罪孽、還沒有滿盈。
But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.
日落天黑、不料有冒煙的爐、並燒著的火把、從那些肉塊中經過。
And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces.
當那日耶和華與亞伯蘭立約、說、我已賜給你的後裔、從埃及河直到伯拉大河之地．
In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates:
就是基尼人、基尼洗人、甲摩尼人、
The Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,
赫人、比利洗人、利乏音人、
And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims,
亞摩利人、迦南人、革迦撒人、耶布斯人、之地。
And the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.
