亞伯蘭的妻子撒萊不給他生兒女．撒萊有一個使女名叫夏甲、是埃及人。
Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had an handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.
撒萊對亞伯蘭說、耶和華使我不能生育、求你和我的使女同房、或者我可以因他得孩子。〔得孩子原文作被建立〕亞伯蘭聽從了撒萊的話．
And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.
於是亞伯蘭的妻子撒萊、將使女埃及人夏甲給了丈夫為妾．那時亞伯蘭在迦南已經住了十年。
And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife.
亞伯蘭與夏甲同房、夏甲就懷了孕．他見自己有孕、就小看他的主母。
And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.
撒萊對亞伯蘭說、我因你受屈、我將我的使女放在你懷中、他見自己有了孕就小看我、願耶和華在你我中間判斷。
And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.
亞伯蘭對撒萊說、使女在你手下、你可以隨意待他．撒萊苦待他、他就從撒萊面前逃走了。
But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand; do to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she fled from her face.
耶和華的使者在曠野、書珥路上的水泉旁遇見他、
And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.
對他說、撒萊的使女夏甲、你從那裡來、要往那裡去．夏甲說、我從我的主母撒萊面前逃出來。
And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.
耶和華的使者對他說、你回到你主母那裡、服在他手下。
And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.
又說、我必使你的後裔極其繁多、甚至不可勝數。
And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.
他為人必像野驢．他的手要攻打人、人的手也要攻打他、他必住在眾弟兄的東邊。
And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.
所以這井名叫庇耳拉海萊．這井正在加低斯、和巴列中間。
Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.
後來夏甲給亞伯蘭生了一個兒子．亞伯蘭給他起名叫以實瑪利。
And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name, which Hagar bare, Ishmael.
夏甲給亞伯蘭生以實瑪利的時候、亞伯蘭年八十六歲。
And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.
