到了第三日、亞伯拉罕舉目遠遠的看見那地方。
Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
亞伯拉罕對他的僕人說、你們和驢在此等候、我與童子往那裡去拜一拜、就回到你們這裡來。
And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.
亞伯拉罕把燔祭的柴放在他兒子以撒身上、自己手裡拿著火與刀．於是二人同行。
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they went both of them together.
以撒對他父親亞伯拉罕說、父親哪。亞伯拉罕說、我兒、我在這裡。以撒說、請看、火與柴都有了、但燔祭的羊羔在哪裡呢。
And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?
亞伯拉罕就伸手拿刀、要殺他的兒子。
And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
耶和華的使者從天上呼叫他說、亞伯拉罕、亞伯拉罕、他說、我在這裡。
And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.
亞伯拉罕舉目觀看、不料、有一隻公羊、兩角扣在稠密的小樹中、亞伯拉罕就取了那隻公羊來、獻為燔祭、代替他的兒子。
And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son.
亞伯拉罕給那地方起名叫耶和華以勒、〔意思就是耶和華必預備〕直到今日人還說、在耶和華的山上必有預備。
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.
耶和華的使者第二次從天上呼叫亞伯拉罕說、
And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time,
耶和華說你既行了這事、不留下你的兒子、就是你獨生的兒子、我便指著自己起誓說、
And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son:
論福、我必賜大福給你、論子孫、我必叫你的子孫多起來、如同天上的星、海邊的沙、你子孫必得著仇敵的城門。
That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;
並且地上萬國都必因你的後裔得福、因為你聽從了我的話．
And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.
於是亞伯拉罕回到他僕人那裡、他們一同起身往別是巴去、亞伯拉罕就住在別是巴。
So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.
這事以後、有人告訴亞伯拉罕說、密迦給你兄弟拿鶴生了幾個兒子、
And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy brother Nahor;
長子是烏斯、他的兄弟是布斯、和亞蘭的父親基母利．
Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
並基薛、哈瑣、必達、益拉、彼土利、（彼土利生利百加）
And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
這八個人、都是密迦給亞伯拉罕的兄弟拿鶴生的。
And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother.
拿鶴的妾名叫流瑪、生了提八、迦含、他轄、和瑪迦。
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.
