亞伯拉罕年紀老邁、向來在一切事上、耶和華都賜福給他。
And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.
亞伯拉罕對管理他全業最老的僕人說、請你把手放在我大腿底下。
And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh:
你要往我本地本族去、為我的兒子以撒娶一個妻子。
But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac.
僕人對他說、倘若女子不肯跟我到這地方來、我必須將你的兒子帶回你原出之地麼。
And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest?
亞伯拉罕對他說、你要謹慎、不要帶我的兒子回那裡去．
And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.
倘若女子不肯跟你來、我使你起的誓就與你無干了、只是不可帶我的兒子回那裡去。
And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.
僕人就把手放在他主人亞伯拉罕的大腿底下、為這事向他起誓。
And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter.
那僕人從他主人的駱駝裡取了十匹駱駝、並帶些他主人各樣的財物、起身往米所波大米去、到了拿鶴的城。
And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.
天將晚、眾女子出來打水的時候、他便叫駱駝跪在城外的水井那裡。
And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out to draw water.
我現今站在井旁、城內居民的女子們正出來打水。
Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water:
我向那一個女子說、請你拿下水瓶來、給我水喝。他若說、請喝、我也給你的駱駝喝、願那女子就作你所預定給你僕人以撒的妻、這樣、我便知道你施恩給我主人了。
And let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed kindness unto my master.
話還沒有說完、不料、利百加肩頭上扛著水瓶出來、利百加是彼土利所生的、彼土利是亞伯拉罕兄弟拿鶴妻子密迦的兒子。
And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.
那女子容貌極其俊美、還是處女、也未曾有人親近他、他下到井旁打滿了瓶、又上來．
And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came up.
僕人跑上前去迎著他說、求你將瓶裡的水給我一點喝。
And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher.
女子說、我主請喝．就急忙拿下瓶來、托在手上給他喝。
And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.
女子給他喝了、就說、我再為你的駱駝打水、叫駱駝也喝足。
And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.
他就急忙把瓶裡的水倒在槽裡、又跑到井旁打水、就為所有的駱駝打上水來。
And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.
那人定睛看他、一句話也不說、要曉得耶和華賜他通達的道路沒有。
And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.
駱駝喝足了、那人就拿一個金環、重半舍客勒、兩個金鐲、重十舍客勒、給了那女子、
And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold;
說、請告訴我、你是誰的女兒、你父親家裡有我們住宿的地方沒有。
And said, Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in?
女子說、我是密迦與拿鶴之子彼土利的女兒．
And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.
又說、我們家裡足有糧草、也有住宿的地方。
She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.
那人就低頭向耶和華下拜、
And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.
女子跑回去、照著這些話告訴他母親和他家裡的人。
And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these things.
利百加有一個哥哥、名叫拉班、看見金環、又看見金鐲在他妹子的手上、並聽見他妹子利百加的話、說、那人對我如此如此說、拉班就跑出來往井旁去、到那人跟前、見他仍站在駱駝旁邊的井旁那裡．
And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the well.
見上節
And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and, behold, he stood by the camels at the well.
便對他說、你這蒙耶和華賜福的、請進來、為甚麼站在外邊、我已經收拾了房屋、也為駱駝預備了地方。
And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.
那人就進了拉班的家．拉班卸了駱駝、用草料餵上、拿水給那人和跟隨的人洗腳。
And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet, and the men's feet that were with him.
把飯擺在他面前、叫他喫、他卻說、我不喫、等我說明白我的事情再喫、拉班說、請說。
And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.
他說、我是亞伯拉罕的僕人。
And he said, I am Abraham's servant.
耶和華大大地賜福給我主人、使他昌大．又賜給他羊群、牛群、金銀、僕婢、駱駝、和驢。
And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.
我主人的妻子撒拉年老的時候、給我主人生了一個兒子．我主人也將一切所有的都給了這個兒子。
And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.
我主人叫我起誓說、你不要為我兒子娶迦南地的女子為妻．
And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
你要往我父家、我本族那裡去、為我的兒子娶一個妻子。
But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son.
我對我主人說、恐怕女子不肯跟我來。
And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me.
他就說、我所事奉的耶和華必要差遣他的使者與你同去、叫你的道路通達．你就得以在我父家、我本族那裡、給我的兒子娶一個妻子。
And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father's house:
只要你到了我本族那裡、我使你起的誓、就與你無干、他們若不把女子交給你、我使你起的誓也與你無干。
Then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.
我如今站在井旁、對那一個出來打水的女子說、請你把你瓶裡的水給我一點喝．
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink;
他若說、你只管喝、我也為你的駱駝打水．願那女子就作耶和華給我主人兒子所預定的妻。
And she say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master's son.
我心裡的話還沒有說完、利百加就出來、肩頭上扛著水瓶、下到井旁打水．我便對他說、請你給我水喝。
And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray thee.
他就急忙從肩頭上拿下瓶來、說、請喝、我也給你的駱駝喝．我便喝了．他又給我的駱駝喝了。
And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank, and she made the camels drink also.
我問他說、你是誰的女兒、他說、我是密迦與拿鶴之子彼土利的女兒、我就把環子戴在他鼻子上、把鐲子戴在他兩手上。
And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him: and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.
現在你們若願以慈愛誠實待我主人、就告訴我．若不然、也告訴我、使我可以或向左、或向右。
And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.
拉班和彼土利回答說、這事乃出於耶和華、我們不能向你說好說歹。
Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.
看哪、利百加在你面前、可以將他帶去、照著耶和華所說的、給你主人的兒子為妻。
Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken.
亞伯拉罕的僕人聽見他們這話、就向耶和華俯伏在地。
And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.
當下僕人拿出金器、銀器、和衣服送給利百加、又將寶物送給他哥哥、和他母親。
And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things.
僕人和跟從他的人、喫了喝了、住了一夜、早晨起來、僕人就說、請打發我回我主人那裡去罷。
And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master.
利百加的哥哥和他母親說、讓女子同我們再住幾天、至少十天、然後他可以去。
And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.
僕人說、耶和華既賜給我通達的道路、你們不要耽誤我、請打發我走、回我主人那裡去罷。
And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.
他們說、我們把女子叫來問問他、
And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her mouth.
就叫了利百加來、問他說、你和這人同去麼、利百加說、我去。
And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go.
於是他們打發妹子利百加和他的乳母、同亞伯拉罕的僕人、並跟從僕人的、都走了。
And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men.
他們就給利百加祝福、說、我們的妹子阿、願你作千萬人的母、願你的後裔、得著仇敵的城門。
And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them.
利百加和他的使女們起來、騎上駱駝、跟著那僕人．僕人就帶著利百加走了。
And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way.
那時、以撒住在南地、剛從庇耳拉海萊回來。
And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country.
天將晚、以撒出來在田間默想．舉目一看、見來了些駱駝。
And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.
利百加舉目看見以撒、就急忙下了駱駝．
And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel.
問那僕人說、這田間走來迎接我們的是誰、僕人說、是我的主人．利百加就拿帕子蒙上臉。
For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master: therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.
僕人就將所辦的一切事、都告訴以撒。
And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.
以撒便領利百加進了他母親撒拉的帳棚、娶了他為妻．並且愛他。以撒自從他母親不在了、這纔得了安慰。
And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.
