亞伯拉罕又娶了一妻、名叫基土拉、
Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.
基土拉給他生了心蘭、約珊、米但、米甸、伊施巴、和書亞。
And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
約珊生了示巴、和底但。底但的子孫、是亞書利族、利都是族、和利烏米族。
And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
米甸的兒子是以法、以弗、哈諾、亞比大、和以勒大。這都是基土拉的子孫。
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
亞伯拉罕將一切所有的都給了以撒。
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.
亞伯拉罕把財物分給他庶出的眾子、趁著自己還在世的時候、打發他們離開他的兒子以撒往東方去。
But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.
亞伯拉罕一生的年日、是一百七十五歲。
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.
亞伯拉罕壽高年邁、氣絕而死、歸到他列祖〔原文作本民〕那裡．
Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.
他兩個兒子以撒、以實瑪利、把他埋葬在麥比拉洞裡．這洞在幔利前、赫人瑣轄的兒子以弗崙的田中、
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre;
就是亞伯拉罕向赫人買的那塊田．亞伯拉罕和他妻子撒拉、都葬在那裡。
The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
撒拉的使女埃及人夏甲、給亞伯拉罕所生的兒子、是以實瑪利。
Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham:
以實瑪利兒子們的名字、按著他們的家譜、記在下面．以實瑪利的長子是尼拜約、又有基達、亞德別、米比衫、
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
米施瑪、度瑪、瑪撒、
And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
哈大、提瑪、伊突、拿非施、基底瑪．
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah:
這是以實瑪利眾子的名字、照著他們的村莊、營寨、作了十二族的族長。
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations.
以實瑪利享壽一百三十七歲、氣絕而死、歸到他列祖〔原文作本民〕那裡。
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people.
他子孫的住處在他眾弟兄東邊、從哈腓拉直到埃及前的書珥、正在亞述的道上。
And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his brethren.
亞伯拉罕的兒子以撒的後代、記在下面．亞伯拉罕生以撒、
And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac:
以撒娶利百加為妻的時候、正四十歲．利百加是巴旦亞蘭地的亞蘭人、彼土利的女兒、是亞蘭人拉班的妹子。
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian.
以撒因他妻子不生育、就為他祈求耶和華、耶和華應允他的祈求、他的妻子利百加就懷了孕。
And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
孩子們在他腹中彼此相爭、他就說、若是這樣、我為甚麼活著呢．〔或作我為甚麼如此呢〕他就去求問耶和華。
And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.
耶和華對他說、兩國在你腹內、兩族要從你身上出來、這族必強於那族、將來大的要服事小的。
And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger.
生產的日子到了、腹中果然是雙子。
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.
先產的身體發紅、渾身有毛、如同皮衣．他們就給他起名叫以掃。〔以掃就是有毛的意思〕
And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.
隨後又生了以掃的兄弟、手抓住以掃的腳跟、因此給他起名叫雅各。〔雅各就是抓住的意思〕利百加生下兩個兒子的時候、以撒年正六十歲。
And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.
兩個孩子漸漸長大、以掃善於打獵、常在田野．雅各為人安靜、常住在帳棚裡。
And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.
以撒愛以掃、因為常喫他的野味．利百加卻愛雅各。
And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob.
有一天、雅各熬湯、以掃從田野回來累昏了。
And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was faint:
以掃對雅各說、我累昏了、求你把這紅湯給我喝．因此以掃又叫以東。〔以東就是紅的意思〕
And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.
雅各說、你今日把長子的名分賣給我罷。
And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.
以掃說、我將要死、這長子的名分於我有甚麼益處呢。
And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me?
雅各說、你今日對我起誓罷．以掃就對他起了誓、把長子的名分賣給雅各。
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.
於是雅各將餅和紅豆湯給了以掃、以掃喫了喝了、便起來走了．這就是以掃輕看了他長子的名分。
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his birthright.
