在亞伯拉罕的日子、那地有一次饑荒．這時又有饑荒、以撒就往基拉耳去、到非利士人的王亞比米勒那裡。
And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar.
耶和華向以撒顯現、說、你不要下埃及去、要住在我所指示你的地。
And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of:
你寄居在這地、我必與你同在、賜福給你、因為我要將這些地都賜給你和你的後裔、我必堅定我向你父亞伯拉罕所起的誓。
Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father;
我要加增你的後裔、像天上的星那樣多．又要將這些地都賜給你的後裔．並且地上萬國必因你的後裔得福．
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed;
都因亞伯拉罕聽從我的話、遵守我的吩咐、和我的命令、律例、法度。
Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
以撒就住在基拉耳。
And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:
那地方的人問到他的妻子、他便說、那是我的妹子．原來他怕說、是我的妻子．他心裡想、恐怕這地方的人、為利百加的緣故殺我、因為他容貌俊美。
And the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.
他在那裡住了許久．有一天非利士人的王亞比米勒、從窗戶裡往外觀看、見以撒和他的妻子利百加戲玩。
And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.
亞比米勒召了以撒來、對他說、他實在是你的妻子．你怎麼說、他是你的妹子．以撒說、我心裡想、恐怕我因他而死。
And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy wife: and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.
亞比米勒說、你向我們作的是甚麼事呢、民中險些有人和你的妻同寢、把我們陷在罪裡。
And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.
於是亞比米勒曉諭眾民說、凡沾著這個人、或是他妻子的、定要把他治死。
And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
以撒在那地耕種、那一年有百倍的收成。耶和華賜福給他。
Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.
他就昌大、日增月盛、成了大富戶。
And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great:
他有羊群、牛群、又有許多僕人．非利士人就嫉妒他。
For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him.
當他父親亞伯拉罕在世的日子、他父親的僕人所挖的井、非利士人全都塞住、填滿了土。
For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth.
亞比米勒對以撒說、你離開我們去罷、因為你比我們強盛得多。
And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we.
以撒就離開那裡、在基拉耳谷支搭帳棚、住在那裡。
And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
當他父親亞伯拉罕在世之日所挖的水井、因非利士人在亞伯拉罕死後塞住了、以撒就重新挖出來、仍照他父親所叫的、叫那些井的名字。
And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
以撒的僕人在谷中挖井、便得了一口活水井。
And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
基拉耳的牧人與以撒的牧人爭競、說、這水是我們的．以撒就給那井起名叫埃色、因為他們和他相爭。〔埃色就是相爭的意思〕
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him.
以撒的僕人又挖了一口井、他們又為這井爭競、因此以撒給這井起名叫西提拿。〔西提拿就是為敵的意思〕
And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.
以撒離開那裡、又挖了一口井、他們不為這井爭競了、他就給那井起名叫利河伯．〔就是寬闊的意思〕他說、耶和華現在給我們寬闊之地、我們必在這地昌盛。
And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.
以撒從那裡上別是巴去。
And he went up from thence to Beersheba.
以撒就在那裡築了一座壇、求告耶和華的名、並且支搭帳棚．他的僕人便在那裡挖了一口井。
And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well.
亞比米勒、同他的朋友亞戶撒、和他的軍長非各、從基拉耳來見以撒。
Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.
以撒對他們說、你們既然恨我、打發我走了、為甚麼到我這裡來呢。
And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you?
他們說、我們明明的看見耶和華與你同在、便說、不如我們兩下彼此起誓、彼此立約。
And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee;
使你不害我們、正如我們未曾害你、一味的厚待你、並且打發你平平安安的走．你是蒙耶和華賜福的了。
That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.
以撒就為他們設擺筵席、他們便喫了喝了。
And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
他們清早起來彼此起誓．以撒打發他們走、他們就平平安安的離開他走了。
And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
那一天以撒的僕人來、將挖井的事告訴他、說、我們得了水了。
And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.
他就給那井起名叫示巴．因此那城叫作別是巴、直到今日。
And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day.
以掃四十歲的時候、娶了赫人比利的女兒猶滴、與赫人以倫的女兒巴實抹為妻．
And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite:
他們常使以撒和利百加心裡愁煩。
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.
