以撒叫了雅各來、給他祝福．並囑咐他說、你不要娶迦南的女子為妻。
And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
你起身往巴旦亞蘭去、到你外祖彼土利家裡、在你母舅拉班的女兒中、娶一女為妻。
Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban thy mother's brother.
以撒打發雅各走了、他就往巴旦亞蘭去、到亞蘭人彼土利的兒子拉班那裡．拉班是雅各以掃的母舅。
And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
以掃見以撒已經給雅各祝福、而且打發他往巴旦亞蘭去、在那裡娶妻、並見祝福的時候囑咐他說、不要娶迦南的女子為妻．
When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
又見雅各聽從父母的話、往巴旦亞蘭去了．
And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padanaram;
以掃就曉得他父親以撒看不中迦南的女子、
And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father;
便往以實瑪利那裡去、在他二妻之外、又娶了瑪哈拉為妻．他是亞伯拉罕兒子以實瑪利的女兒、尼拜約的妹子。
Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife.
雅各出了別是巴向哈蘭走去。
And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.
到了一個地方、因為太陽落了、就在那裡住宿．便拾起那地方的一塊石頭、枕在頭下、在那裡躺臥睡了。
And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.
你的後裔必像地上的塵沙那樣多、必向東西南北開展．地上萬族必因你和你的後裔得福．
And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
我也與你同在、你無論往那裡去、我必保佑你、領你歸回這地、總不離棄你、直到我成全了向你所應許的。
And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.
雅各睡醒了、說、耶和華真在這裡、我竟不知道。
And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not.
雅各清早起來、把所枕的石頭立作柱子、澆油在上面。
And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.
