雅各起行、到了東方人之地．
Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the people of the east.
看見田間有一口井、有三群羊臥在井旁．因為人飲羊群、都是用那井裡的水．井口上的石頭是大的。
And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth.
常有羊群在那裡聚集．牧人把石頭轉離井口飲羊、隨後又把石頭放在井口的原處。
And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in his place.
雅各對牧人說、弟兄們、你們是那裡來的．他們說、我們是哈蘭來的。
And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they said, Of Haran are we.
他問他們說、拿鶴的孫子拉班、你們認識麼．他們說、我們認識。
And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him.
雅各說、他平安麼．他們說、平安．看哪、他女兒拉結領著羊來了。
And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well: and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.
雅各說、日頭還高、不是羊群聚集的時候、你們不如飲羊再去放一放。
And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and feed them.
他們說、我們不能、必等羊群聚齊、人把石頭轉離井口、纔可飲羊。
And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we water the sheep.
雅各正和他們說話的時候、拉結領著他父親的羊來了、因為那些羊是他牧放的。
And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep: for she kept them.
雅各看見母舅拉班的女兒拉結、和母舅拉班的羊群、就上前把石頭轉離井口、飲他母舅拉班的羊群。
And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.
雅各與拉結親嘴、就放聲而哭。
And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
雅各告訴拉結自己是他父親的外甥、是利百加的兒子．拉結就跑去告訴他父親。
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.
拉班聽見外甥雅各的信息、就跑去迎接、抱著他與他親嘴、領他到自己的家．雅各將一切的情由告訴拉班。
And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.
拉班對他說、你實在是我的骨肉．雅各就和他同住了一個月。
And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month.
拉班對雅各說、你雖是我的骨肉、〔原文作弟兄〕豈可白白的服事我、請告訴我你要甚麼為工價。
And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy wages be?
拉班有兩個女兒、大的名叫利亞、小的名叫拉結。
And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
雅各愛拉結、就說、我願為你小女兒拉結服事你七年。
And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter.
拉班說、我把他給你、勝似給別人、你與我同住罷。
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should give her to another man: abide with me.
雅各就為拉結服事了七年．他因為深愛拉結、就看這七年如同幾天。
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her.
雅各對拉班說、日期已經滿了、求你把我的妻子給我、我好與他同房。
And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.
拉班就擺設筵席、請齊了那地方的眾人。
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
到晚上、拉班將女兒利亞送來給雅各、雅各就與他同房。
And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.
拉班又將婢女悉帕給女兒利亞作使女。
And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an handmaid.
到了早晨、雅各一看是利亞、就對拉班說、你向我作的是甚麼事呢．我服事你、不是為拉結麼．你為甚麼欺哄我呢。
And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah: and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?
拉班說、大女兒還沒有給人、先把小女兒給人、在我們這地方沒有這規矩。
And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn.
你為這個滿了七日、我就把那個也給你、你再為他服事我七年。
Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.
雅各就如此行．滿了利亞的七日、拉班便將女兒拉結給雅各為妻。
And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also.
拉班又將婢女辟拉給女兒拉結作使女。
And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid.
雅各也與拉結同房、並且愛拉結勝似愛利亞．於是又服事了拉班七年。
And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.
耶和華見利亞失寵、〔原文作被恨下同〕就使他生育．拉結卻不生育。
And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb: but Rachel was barren.
利亞懷孕生子、就給他起名叫流便、〔就是有兒子的意思〕因而說、耶和華看見我的苦情、如今我的丈夫必愛我。
And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction; now therefore my husband will love me.
他又懷孕生子、就說、耶和華因為聽見我失寵、所以又賜給我這個兒子．於是給他起名叫西緬。〔就是聽見的意思〕
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the LORD hath heard that I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also: and she called his name Simeon.
他又懷孕生子、起名叫利未、〔就是聯合的意思〕說、我給丈夫生了三個兒子、他必與我聯合。
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons: therefore was his name called Levi.
他又懷孕生子、說、這回我要讚美耶和華、因此給他起名叫猶大．〔就是讚美的意思〕這纔停了生育。
And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left bearing.
