女人對蛇說、園中樹上的果子我們可以喫．
And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
蛇對女人說、你們不一定死、
And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:
於是女人見那棵樹的果子好作食物、也悅人的眼目、且是可喜愛的、能使人有智慧、就摘下果子來喫了．又給他丈夫、他丈夫也喫了。
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.
他們二人的眼睛就明亮了、纔知道自己是赤身露體、便拿無花果樹的葉子、為自己編作裙子。
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
他說、我在園中聽見你的聲音、我就害怕、因為我赤身露體．我便藏了。
And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.
耶和華說、誰告訴你赤身露體呢、莫非你喫了我吩咐你不可喫的那樹上的果子麼。
And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
那人說、你所賜給我、與我同居的女人、他把那樹上的果子給我、我就喫了。
And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.
我又要叫你和女人彼此為仇、你的後裔和女人的後裔、也彼此為仇．女人的後裔要傷你的頭、你要傷他的腳跟。
And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
又對女人說、我必多多加增你懷胎的苦楚、你生產兒女必多受苦楚．你必戀慕你丈夫、你丈夫必管轄你。
Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.
又對亞當說、你既聽從妻子的話、喫了我所吩咐你不可喫的那樹上的果子、地必為你的緣故受咒詛．你必終身勞苦、纔能從地裡得喫的。
And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;
地必給你長出荊棘和蒺藜來、你也要喫田間的菜蔬。
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;
你必汗流滿面纔得糊口、直到你歸了土、因為你是從土而出的．你本是塵土、仍要歸於塵土。
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.
亞當給他妻子起名叫夏娃、因為他是眾生之母。
And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.
於是把他趕出去了．又在伊甸園的東邊安設基路伯、和四面轉動發火焰的劍、要把守生命樹的道路。
So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
