拉結見自己不給雅各生子、就嫉妒他姐姐、對雅各說、你給我孩子、不然我就死了。
And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die.
拉結說、有我的使女辟拉在這裡、你可以與他同房、使他生子在我膝下、我便因他也得孩子。〔得孩子原文作被建立〕
And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.
拉結就把他的使女辟拉給丈夫為妾、雅各便與他同房。
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her.
辟拉就懷孕給雅各生了一個兒子。
And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.
拉結的使女辟拉又懷孕、給雅各生了第二個兒子。
And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son.
拉結說、我與我姐姐大大相爭、並且得勝．於是給他起名叫拿弗他利。〔就是相爭的意思〕
And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.
利亞見自己停了生育、就把使女悉帕給雅各為妾．
When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.
利亞的使女悉帕給雅各生了一個兒子．
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.
利亞說、萬幸、於是給他起名叫迦得。〔就是萬幸的意思〕
And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.
利亞的使女悉帕又給雅各生了第二個兒子．
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.
利亞說、我有福阿、眾女子都要稱我是有福的．於是給他起名叫亞設。〔就是有福的意思〕
And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and she called his name Asher.
割麥子的時候、流便往田裡去尋見風茄、拿來給他母親利亞．拉結對利亞說、請你把你兒子的風茄給我些。
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes.
利亞說、你奪了我的丈夫還算小事麼、你又要奪我兒子的風茄麼。拉結說、為你兒子的風茄、今夜他可以與你同寢。
And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's mandrakes.
到了晚上、雅各從田裡回來、利亞出來迎接他、說、你要與我同寢、因為我實在用我兒子的風茄、把你雇下了。那一夜雅各就與他同寢．
And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that night.
利亞又懷孕、給雅各生了第六個兒子。
And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.
後來又生了一個女兒、給他起名叫底拿。
And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.
就給他起名叫約瑟、〔就是增添的意思〕意思說、願耶和華再增添我一個兒子。
And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD shall add to me another son.
拉結生約瑟之後、雅各對拉班說、請打發我走、叫我回到我本鄉本土去。
And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country.
請你把我服事你所得的妻子、和兒女給我、讓我走．我怎樣服事你、你都知道。
Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.
拉班對他說、我若在你眼前蒙恩、請你仍與我同住、因為我已算定、耶和華賜福與我、是為你的緣故．
And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake.
又說、請你定你的工價、我就給你。
And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.
雅各對他說、我怎樣服事你、你的牲畜在我手裡怎樣、是你知道的。
And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me.
我未來之先、你所有的很少、現今卻發大眾多、耶和華隨我的腳步賜福與你．如今、我甚麼時候纔為自己興家立業呢。
For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?
拉班說、我當給你甚麼呢。雅各說、甚麼你也不必給我、只有一件事、你若應承、我便仍舊牧放你的羊群。
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock.
今天我要走遍你的羊群、把綿羊中凡有點的、有斑的、和黑色的、並山羊中凡有斑的、有點的、都挑出來、將來這一等的、就算我的工價。
I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such shall be my hire.
以後你來查看我的工價、凡在我手裡的山羊不是有點有斑的、綿羊不是黑色的、那就算是我偷的．這樣、便可證出我的公義來。
So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me.
拉班說、好阿。我情願照著你的話行。
And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word.
當日拉班把有紋的、有斑的公山羊、有點的、有斑的、有雜白紋的母山羊、並黑色的綿羊、都挑出來、交在他兒子們的手下．
And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.
又使自己和雅各相離三天的路程．雅各就牧養拉班其餘的羊。
And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.
雅各拿楊樹、杏樹、楓樹的嫩枝、將皮剝成白紋、使枝子露出白的來．
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chestnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods.
將剝了皮的枝子、對著羊群插在飲羊的水溝裡、和水槽裡、羊來喝的時候牝牡配合。
And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink.
羊對著枝子配合、就生下有紋的、有點的、有斑的來。
And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.
雅各把羊羔分出來、使拉班的羊、與這有紋和黑色的羊相對、把自己的羊另放一處、不叫他和拉班的羊混雜。
And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle.
到羊群肥壯配合的時候、雅各就把枝子插在水溝裡、使羊對著枝子配合。
And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.
只是到羊瘦弱配合的時候、就不插枝子．這樣、瘦弱的就歸拉班、肥壯的就歸雅各。
But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.
於是雅各極其發大、得了許多的羊群、僕婢、駱駝、和驢。
And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.
