於是雅各和一切與他同在的人、到了迦南地的路斯、就是伯特利。
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.
利百加的奶母底波拉死了、就葬在伯特利下邊橡樹底下．那棵樹名叫亞倫巴古。
But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.
我所賜給亞伯拉罕和以撒的地、我要賜給你、與你的後裔。
And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land.
雅各便在那裡立了一根石柱、在柱子上奠酒、澆油．
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon.
他們從伯特利起行、離以法他還有一段路程、拉結臨產甚是艱難．
And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.
正在艱難的時候、收生婆對他說、不要怕、你又要得一個兒子了。
And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.
他將近於死、靈魂要走的時候、就給他兒子起名叫便俄尼、他父親卻給他起名叫便雅憫。
And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin.
拉結死了、葬在以法他的路旁．以法他就是伯利恆。
And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.
雅各在他的墳上立了一統碑、就是拉結的墓碑、到今日還在。
And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day.
以色列起行前往、在以得臺那邊支搭帳棚。
And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar.
以色列住在那地的時候、流便去與他父親的妾辟拉同寢、以色列也聽見了。雅各共有十二個兒子。
And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:
利亞所生的、是雅各的長子流便、還有西緬、利未、猶大、以薩迦、西布倫。
The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun:
拉結所生的是約瑟、便雅憫。
The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin:
拉結的使女辟拉所生的是但、拿弗他利。
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali:
利亞的使女悉帕所生的是迦得、亞設、這是雅各在巴旦亞蘭所生的兒子。
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid; Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.
雅各來到他父親以撒那裡、到了基列亞巴的幔利、乃是亞伯拉罕和以撒寄居的地方．基列亞巴就是希伯崙。
And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
以撒共活了一百八十歲。
And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.
以撒年紀老邁、日子滿足、氣絕而死、歸到他列祖〔原文作本民〕那裡．他兩個兒子以掃雅各把他埋葬了。
And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
