那時猶大離開他弟兄下去、到一個亞杜蘭人名叫希拉的家裡去。
And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
猶大在那裡看見一個迦南人名叫書亞的女兒、就娶他為妻、與他同房、
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.
他就懷孕生了兒子、猶大給他起名叫珥。
And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.
他又懷孕生了兒子、母親給他起名叫俄南。
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name Onan.
他復又生了兒子、給他起名叫示拉．他生示拉的時候、猶大正在基悉。
And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.
猶大為長子珥娶妻、名叫他瑪。
And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.
猶大的長子珥在耶和華眼中看為惡、耶和華就叫他死了。
And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD slew him.
猶大對俄南說、你當與你哥哥的妻子同房、向他盡你為弟的本分、為你哥哥生子立後。
And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.
俄南知道生子不歸自己、所以同房的時候、便遺在地、免得給他哥哥留後。
And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.
俄南所作的、在耶和華眼中看為惡、耶和華也就叫他死了。
And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also.
猶大心裡說、恐怕示拉也死、像他兩個哥哥一樣、就對他兒婦他瑪說、你去、在你父親家裡守寡、等我兒子示拉長大．他瑪就回去住在他父親家裡。
Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house.
過了許久、猶大的妻子書亞的女兒死了、猶大得了安慰、就和他朋友亞杜蘭人希拉上亭拿去、到他剪羊毛的人那裡。
And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.
有人告訴他瑪說、你的公公上亭拿剪羊毛去了。
And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep.
他瑪見示拉已經長大、還沒有娶他為妻、就脫了他作寡婦的衣裳、用帕子蒙著臉、又遮住身體、坐在亭拿路上的伊拿印城門口。
And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given unto him to wife.
猶大看見他、以為是妓女、因為他蒙著臉。
When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she had covered her face.
猶大就轉到他那裡去說、來罷、讓我與你同寢．他原不知道是他的兒婦。他瑪說、你要與我同寢、把甚麼給我呢。
And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in unto me?
猶大說、我從羊群裡取一隻山羊羔打發人送來給你．他瑪說、在未送以先、你願意給我一個當頭麼。
And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?
他說、我給你甚麼當頭呢、他瑪說、你的印、你的帶子、和你手裡的杖。猶大就給了他、與他同寢．他就從猶大懷了孕。
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.
他瑪起來走了、除去帕子、仍舊穿上作寡婦的衣裳。
And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood.
猶大託他朋友亞杜蘭人、送一隻山羊羔去、要從那女人手裡取回當頭來、卻找不著他、
And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not.
就問那地方的人說、伊拿印路旁的妓女在那裡、他們說、這裡並沒有妓女。
Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no harlot in this place.
他回去見猶大說、我沒有找著他、並且那地方的人說、這裡沒有妓女。
And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.
猶大說、我把這山羊羔送去了、你竟找不著他、任憑他拿去罷、免得我們被羞辱。
And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.
約過了三個月、有人告訴猶大說、你的兒婦他瑪作了妓女、且因行淫有了身孕．猶大說、拉出他來把他燒了。
And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt.
他瑪被拉出來的時候、便打發人去見他公公、對他說、這些東西是誰的、我就是從誰懷的孕、請你認一認、這印、和帶子、並杖、都是誰的。
When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said, Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff.
猶大承認說、他比我更有義、因為我沒有將他給我的兒子示拉．從此猶大不再與他同寢了。
And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more.
他瑪將要生產、不料他腹裡是一對雙生．
And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins were in her womb.
到生產的時候、一個孩子伸出一隻手來、收生婆拿紅線拴在他手上、說、這是頭生的。
And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first.
隨後這孩子把手收回去、他哥哥生出來了、收生婆說、你為甚麼搶著來呢、因此給他起名叫法勒斯。
And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.
後來他兄弟那手上有紅線的、也生出來、就給他起名叫謝拉。
And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.
