約瑟被帶下埃及去．有一個埃及人是法老的內臣、護衛長波提乏、從那些帶下他來的以實瑪利人手下買了他去。
And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.
約瑟住在他主人埃及人的家中．耶和華與他同在、他就百事順利。
And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.
他主人見耶和華與他同在、又見耶和華使他手裡所辦的盡都順利。
And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand.
約瑟就在主人眼前蒙恩、伺候他主人、並且主人派他管理家務、把一切所有的都交在他手裡。
And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.
自從主人派約瑟管理家務、和他一切所有的、耶和華就因約瑟的緣故、賜福與那埃及人的家．凡家裡和田間一切所有的、都蒙耶和華賜福。
And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.
波提乏將一切所有的、都交在約瑟的手中、除了自己所喫的飯、別的事一概不知．約瑟原來秀雅俊美。
And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.
這事以後、約瑟主人的妻以目送情給約瑟、說、你與我同寢罷。
And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.
約瑟不從、對他主人的妻說、看哪、一切家務、我主人都不知道、他把所有的都交在我手裡。
But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand;
後來他天天和約瑟說、約瑟卻不聽從他、不與他同寢、也不和他在一處。
And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.
有一天、約瑟進屋裡去辦事、家中人沒有一個在那屋裡。
And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house there within.
婦人就拉住他的衣裳說、你與我同寢罷．約瑟把衣裳丟在婦人手裡、跑到外邊去了。
And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.
婦人看見約瑟把衣裳丟在他手裡跑出去了、
And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth,
就叫了家裡的人來、對他們說、你們看、他帶了一個希伯來人、進入我們家裡、要戲弄我們．他到我這裡來、要與我同寢、我就大聲喊叫．
That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice:
他聽見我放聲喊起來、就把衣裳丟在我這裡、跑到外邊去了。
And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out.
婦人把約瑟的衣裳放在自己那裡、等著他主人回家、
And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.
就對他如此如此說、你所帶到我們這裡的那希伯來僕人、進來要戲弄我．
And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me:
我放聲喊起來、他就把衣裳丟在我這裡跑出去了。
And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out.
約瑟的主人聽見他妻子對他所說的話、說、你的僕人如此如此待我、他就生氣．
And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.
把約瑟下在監裡、就是王的囚犯被囚的地方．於是約瑟在那裡坐監。
And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the prison.
但耶和華與約瑟同在、向他施恩、使他在司獄的眼前蒙恩。
But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
司獄就把監裡所有的囚犯、都交在約瑟手下、他們在那裡所辦的事、都是經他的手。
And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it.
凡在約瑟手下的事、司獄一概不察、因為耶和華與約瑟同在、耶和華使他所作的盡都順利。
The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the LORD made it to prosper.
