有一日、那人和他妻子夏娃同房、夏娃就懷孕、生了該隱、〔就是得的意思〕便說、耶和華使我得了一個男子。
And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.
又生了該隱的兄弟亞伯。亞伯是牧羊的．該隱是種地的。
And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
有一日、該隱拿地裡的出產為供物獻給耶和華．
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.
亞伯也將他羊群中頭生的、和羊的脂油獻上．耶和華看中了亞伯和他的供物．
And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:
只是看不中該隱和他的供物．該隱就大大的發怒、變了臉色。
But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.
耶和華對該隱說、你為甚麼發怒呢、你為甚麼變了臉色呢．
And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?
你若行得好、豈不蒙悅納、你若行得不好、罪就伏在門前．他必戀慕你、你卻要制伏他。
If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.
該隱與他兄弟亞伯說話、二人正在田間、該隱起來打他兄弟亞伯、把他殺了。
And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.
耶和華對該隱說、你兄弟亞伯在那裡．他說、我不知道、我豈是看守我兄弟的嗎。
And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?
耶和華說、你作了甚麼事呢、你兄弟的血、有聲音從地裡向我哀告。
And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground.
地開了口、從你手裡接受你兄弟的血．現在你必從這地受咒詛。
And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;
你種地、地不再給你效力．你必流離飄蕩在地上。
When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.
該隱對耶和華說、我的刑罰太重、過於我所能當的。
And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear.
你如今趕逐我離開這地、以致不見你面．我必流離飄蕩在地上、凡遇見我的必殺我。
Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall slay me.
耶和華對他說、凡殺該隱的必遭報七倍。耶和華就給該隱立一個記號、免得人遇見他就殺他。
And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.
於是該隱離開耶和華的面、去住在伊甸東邊挪得之地。
And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
該隱與妻子同房、他妻子就懷孕、生了以諾、該隱建造了一座城、就按著他兒子的名將那城叫作以諾。
And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
以諾生以拿、以拿生米戶雅利、米戶雅利生瑪土撒利、瑪土撒利生拉麥。
And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.
拉麥娶了兩個妻、一個名叫亞大、一個名叫洗拉。
And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
亞大生雅八、雅八就是住帳棚牧養牲畜之人的祖師。
And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle.
雅八的兄弟名叫猶八．他是一切彈琴吹簫之人的祖師。
And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.
洗拉又生了土八該隱、他是打造各樣銅鐵利器的、〔或作是銅匠鐵匠的祖師〕土八該隱的妹子是拿瑪。
And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.
拉麥對他兩個妻子說、亞大、洗拉、聽我的聲音、拉麥的妻子細聽我的話語、壯年人傷我、我把他殺了、少年人損我、我把他害了．〔或作我殺壯士卻傷自己我害幼童卻損本身〕
And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.
若殺該隱、遭報七倍、殺拉麥、必遭報七十七倍。
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.
塞特也生了一個兒子、起名叫以挪士。那時候人纔求告耶和華的名。
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.
