這事以後、埃及王的酒政和膳長、得罪了他們的主埃及王、
And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.
法老就惱怒酒政和膳長這二臣．
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.
把他們下在護衛長府內的監裡、就是約瑟被囚的地方。
And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.
護衛長把他們交給約瑟、約瑟便伺候他們．他們有些日子在監裡。
And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them: and they continued a season in ward.
被囚在監之埃及王的酒政和膳長、二人同夜各作一夢、各夢都有講解。
And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison.
到了早晨、約瑟進到他們那裡、見他們有愁悶的樣子。
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon them, and, behold, they were sad.
他便問法老的二臣、就是與他同囚在他主人府裡的、說、他們今日為甚麼面帶愁容呢。
And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day?
酒政便將他的夢告訴約瑟說、我夢見在我面前有一棵葡萄樹、
And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me;
樹上有三根枝子、好像發了芽、開了花、上頭的葡萄都成熟了。
And in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes:
法老的杯在我手中、我就拿葡萄擠在法老的杯裡、將杯遞在他手中。
And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.
約瑟對他說、他所作的夢是這樣解、三根枝子就是三天．
And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days:
三天之內、法老必提你出監、叫你官復原職、你仍要遞杯在法老的手中、和先前作他的酒政一樣。
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler.
但你得好處的時候、求你記念我、施恩與我、在法老面前提說我、救我出這監牢。
But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house:
我實在是從希伯來人之地被拐來的、我在這裡也沒有作過甚麼、叫他們把我下在監裡。
For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.
膳長見夢解得好、就對約瑟說、我在夢中見我頭上頂著三筐白餅．
When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head:
極上的筐子裡、有為法老烤的各樣食物、有飛鳥來喫我頭上筐子裡的食物。
And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head.
約瑟說、你的夢是這樣解、三個筐子就是三天．
And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days:
三天之內、法老必斬斷你的頭、把你挂在木頭上、必有飛鳥來喫你身上的肉。
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.
到了第三天、是法老的生日、他為眾臣僕設擺筵席、把酒政和膳長提出監來．
And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.
使酒政官復原職、他仍舊遞杯在法老手中。
And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand:
但把膳長挂起來、正如約瑟向他們所解的話。
But he hanged the chief baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.
酒政卻不記念約瑟、竟忘了他。
Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.
