雅各見埃及有糧、就對兒子們說、你們為甚麼彼此觀望呢。
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?
我聽見埃及有糧、你們可以下去從那裡為我們糴些來、使我們可以存活、不至於死。
And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.
於是約瑟的十個哥哥都下埃及糴糧去了。
And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.
但約瑟的兄弟便雅憫、雅各沒有打發他和哥哥們同去、因為雅各說、恐怕他遭害。
But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.
來糴糧的人中有以色列的兒子們、因為迦南地也有饑荒。
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
當時治理埃及地的是約瑟、糶糧給那地眾民的就是他。約瑟的哥哥們來了、臉伏於地、向他下拜。
And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.
約瑟看見他哥哥們、就認得他們、卻裝作生人、向他們說些嚴厲話、問他們說、你們從那裡來．他們說、我們從迦南地來糴糧。
And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.
約瑟認得他哥哥們、他們卻不認得他。
And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.
約瑟想起從前所作的那兩個夢、就對他們說、你們是奸細、來窺探這地的虛實。
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.
他們對他說、我主阿、不是的、僕人們是糴糧來的、
And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come.
我們都是一個人的兒子、是誠實人、僕人們並不是奸細。
We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are no spies.
約瑟說、不然、你們必是窺探這地的虛實來的。
And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.
他們說、僕人們本是弟兄十二人、是迦南地一個人的兒子、頂小的現今在我們的父親那裡、有一個沒有了。
And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not.
約瑟說、我纔說你們是奸細、這話實在不錯、
And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying, Ye are spies:
我指著法老的性命起誓、若是你們的小兄弟、不到這裡來、你們就不得出這地方、從此就可以把你們證驗出來了．
Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither.
須要打發你們中間一個人去、把你們的兄弟帶來、至於你們、都要囚在這裡、好證驗你們的話真不真、若不真、我指著法老的性命起誓、你們一定是奸細。
Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.
於是約瑟把他們都下在監裡三天。
And he put them all together into ward three days.
你們如果是誠實人、可以留你們中間的一個人囚在監裡、但你們可以帶著糧食回去、救你們家裡的饑荒．
If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses:
把你們的小兄弟帶到我這裡來、如此、你們的話便有證據、你們也不至於死．他們就照樣而行。
But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.
他們彼此說、我們在兄弟身上實在有罪、他哀求我們的時候、我們見他心裡的愁苦、卻不肯聽、所以這場苦難臨到我們身上。
And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.
流便說、我豈不是對你們說過、不可傷害那孩子麼、只是你們不肯聽、所以流他血的罪向我們追討。
And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is required.
他們不知道約瑟聽得出來、因為在他們中間用通事傳話。
And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto them by an interpreter.
約瑟轉身退去、哭了一場、又回來對他們說話、就從他們中間挑出西緬來、在他們眼前把他捆綁。
And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes.
約瑟吩咐人把糧食裝滿他們的器具、把各人的銀子歸還在各人的口袋裡、又給他們路上用的食物、人就照他的話辦了。
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and thus did he unto them.
他們就把糧食馱在驢上、離開那裡去了。
And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.
到了住宿的地方、他們中間有一個人打開口袋、要拿料餵驢、纔看見自己的銀子仍在口袋裡．
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth.
他們來到迦南地他們的父親雅各那裡、將所遭遇的事都告訴他、說、
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying,
那地的主對我們說嚴厲的話、把我們當作窺探那地的奸細。
The man, who is the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country.
我們對他說、我們是誠實人、並不是奸細．
And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies:
我們本是弟兄十二人、都是一個父親的兒子、有一個沒有了、頂小的如今同我們的父親在迦南地。
We be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.
那地的主對我們說、若要我知道你們是誠實人、可以留下你們中間的一個人在我這裡、你們可以帶著糧食回去、救你們家裡的饑荒．
And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone:
把你們的小兄弟帶到我這裡來、我便知道你們不是奸細、乃是誠實人．這樣、我就把你們的弟兄交給你們、你們也可以在這地作買賣。
And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.
後來他們倒口袋、不料各人的銀包都在口袋裡、他們和父親看見銀包就都害怕。
And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.
他們的父親雅各對他們說、你們使我喪失我的兒子．約瑟沒有了、西緬也沒有了、你們又要將便雅憫帶去．這些事都歸到我身上了。
And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me.
流便對他父親說、我若不帶他回來交給你、你可以殺我的兩個兒子、只管把他交在我手裡、我必帶他回來交給你。
And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again.
雅各說、我的兒子不可與你們一同下去．他哥哥死了、只剩下他、他若在你們所行的路上遭害、那便是你們使我白髮蒼蒼、悲悲慘慘的下陰間去了。
And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.
