約瑟吩咐家宰說、把糧食裝滿這些人的口袋、儘著他們的驢所能馱的、又把各人的銀子放在各人的口袋裡。
And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth.
並將我的銀杯、和那少年人糴糧的銀子、一同裝在他的口袋裡．家宰就照約瑟所說的話行了。
And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
天一亮就打發那些人帶著驢走了。
As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses.
他們出城走了不遠、約瑟對家宰說、起來追那些人去、追上了就對他們說、你們為甚麼以惡報善呢。
And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good?
這不是我主人飲酒的杯麼、豈不是他占卜用的麼、你們這樣行是作惡了。
Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.
家宰追上他們、將這些話對他們說了。
And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.
你看、我們從前在口袋裡所見的銀子、尚且從迦南地帶來還你、我們怎能從你主人家裡偷竊金銀呢。
Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold?
你僕人中、無論在誰那裡搜出來、就叫他死、我們也作我主的奴僕。
With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen.
家宰說、現在就照你們的話行罷、在誰那裡搜出來、誰就作我的奴僕．其餘的都沒有罪。
And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.
於是他們各人急忙把口袋卸在地下、各人打開口袋。
Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.
家宰就搜查、從年長的起、到年幼的為止、那杯竟在便雅憫的口袋裡搜出來。
And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
他們就撕裂衣服、各人把馱子抬在驢上、回城去了。
Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.
猶大和他弟兄們來到約瑟的屋中、約瑟還在那裡、他們就在他面前俯伏於地。
And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.
約瑟對他們說、你們作的是甚麼事呢、你們豈不知像我這樣的人必能占卜嗎。
And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?
猶大挨近他說、我主阿、求你容僕人說一句話給我主聽、不要向僕人發烈怒、因為你如同法老一樣。
Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.
我主曾問僕人們說、你們有父親有兄弟沒有。
My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother?
我們對我主說、我們有父親、已經年老、還有他老年所生的一個小孩子、他哥哥死了、他母親只撇下他一人、他父親疼愛他。
And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.
你對僕人說、把他帶到我這裡來、叫我親眼看看他。
And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.
我們對我主說、童子不能離開他父親、若是離開、他父親必死。
And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die.
你對僕人說、你們的小兄弟若不與你們一同下來、你們就不得再見我的面。
And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.
我們上到你僕人我們父親那裡、就把我主的話告訴了他。
And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.
我們的父親說、你們再去給我糴些糧來。
And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.
我們就說、我們不能下去、我們的小兄弟若和我們同往、我們就可以下去、因為小兄弟若不與我們同往、我們必不得見那人的面。
And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except our youngest brother be with us.
你僕人我父親對我們說、你們知道我的妻子給我生了兩個兒子。
And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons:
一個離開我出去了、我說、他必是被撕碎了、直到如今我也沒有見他．
And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since:
現在你們又要把這個帶去離開我、倘若他遭害、那便是你們使我白髮蒼蒼、悲悲慘慘的下陰間去了。』
And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.
我父親的命與這童子的命相連、如今我回到你僕人我父親那裡、若沒有童子與我們同在、
Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life;
我們的父親見沒有童子、他就必死．這便是我們使你僕人我們的父親白髮蒼蒼、悲悲慘慘的下陰間去了。
It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.
因為僕人曾向我父親為這童子作保、說、我若不帶他回來交給父親、我便在父親面前永遠擔罪。
For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever.
現在求你容僕人住下、替這童子作我主的奴僕、叫童子和他哥哥們一同上去。
Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.
若童子不和我同去、我怎能上去見我父親呢、恐怕我看見災禍臨到我父親身上。
For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.
