約瑟伏在他父親的面上哀哭、與他親嘴。
And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him.
約瑟吩咐伺候他的醫生、用香料薰他父親、醫生就用香料薰了以色列。
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.
薰尸的常例是四十天、那四十天滿了、埃及人為他哀哭了七十天。
And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days.
為他哀哭的日子過了、約瑟對法老家中的人說、我若在你們眼前蒙恩、請你們報告法老說、
And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
我父親要死的時候、叫我起誓、說、你要將我葬在迦南地、在我為自己所掘的墳墓裡．現在求你讓我上去葬我父親、以後我必回來。
My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.
法老說、你可以上去、照著你父親叫你起的誓、將他葬埋。
And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear.
於是約瑟上去葬他父親．與他一同上去的、有法老的臣僕、和法老家中的長老、並埃及國的長老．
And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,
還有約瑟的全家、和他的弟兄們、並他父親的眷屬、只有他們的婦人、孩子、和羊群、牛群、都留在歌珊地．
And all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.
又有車輛、馬兵、和他一同上去．那一幫人甚多。
And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company.
他們到了約但河外、亞達的禾場、就在那裡大大的號咷痛哭．約瑟為他父親哀哭了七天。
And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days.
迦南的居民、見亞達禾場上的哀哭、就說、這是埃及人一場大的哀哭、因此那地方名叫亞伯麥西、是在約但河東。
And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which is beyond Jordan.
雅各的兒子們、就遵著他父親所吩咐的辦了、
And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them:
把他搬到迦南地、葬在幔利前、麥比拉田間的洞裡．那洞和田、是亞伯拉罕向赫人以弗崙買來為業作墳地的。
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.
約瑟葬了他父親以後、就和眾弟兄、並一切同他上去葬他父親的人、都回埃及去了。
And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.
約瑟的哥哥們見父親死了、就說、或者約瑟懷恨我們、照著我們從前待他一切的惡、足足的報復我們。
And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him.
他們就打發人去見約瑟說、你父親未死以先、吩咐說、
And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying,
他的哥哥們又來俯伏在他面前說、我們是你的僕人。
And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we be thy servants.
現在你們不要害怕、我必養活你們、和你們的婦人、孩子．於是約瑟用親愛的話安慰他們。
Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.
約瑟和他父親的眷屬、都住在埃及．約瑟活了一百一十歲。
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.
約瑟得見以法蓮第三代的子孫．瑪拿西的孫子瑪吉的兒子、也養在約瑟的膝上。
And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph's knees.
約瑟死了、正一百一十歲．人用香料將他薰了、把他收殮在棺材裡、停在埃及。
So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.
