耶和華對挪亞說、你和你的全家都要進入方舟、因為在這世代中、我見你在我面前是義人。
And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.
凡潔淨的畜類、你要帶七公七母．不潔淨的畜類、你要帶一公一母．
Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female.
空中的飛鳥、也要帶七公七母、可以留種、活在全地上、
Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
因為再過七天、我要降雨在地上四十晝夜、把我所造的各種活物、都從地上除滅。
For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.
挪亞就遵著耶和華所吩咐的行了。
And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.
當洪水氾濫在地上的時候、挪亞整六百歲。
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.
挪亞就同他的妻、和兒子、兒婦、都進入方舟、躲避洪水。
And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.
潔淨的畜類、和不潔淨的畜類、飛鳥並地上一切的昆蟲、
Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth,
過了那七天、洪水氾濫在地上。
And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.
當挪亞六百歲、二月十七日那一天、大淵的泉源、都裂開了、天上的窗戶、也敞開了。
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
四十晝夜降大雨在地上。
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
正當那日、挪亞和他三個兒子、閃、含、雅弗、並挪亞的妻子、和三個兒婦、都進入方舟。
In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark;
他們和百獸、各從其類、一切牲畜、各從其類、爬在地上的昆蟲、各從其類、一切禽鳥、各從其類、都進入方舟。
They, and every beast after his kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind, every bird of every sort.
凡有血肉、有氣息的活物、都一對一對的到挪亞那裡、進入方舟。
And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh, wherein is the breath of life.
洪水氾濫在地上四十天、水往上長、把方舟從地上漂起。
And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.
水勢浩大、在地上大大的往上長、方舟在水面上漂來漂去。
And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.
水勢在地上極其浩大、天下的高山都淹沒了。
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.
水勢比山高過十五肘、山嶺都淹沒了。
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains were covered.
凡在地上有血肉的動物、就是飛鳥、牲畜、走獸、和爬在地上的昆蟲、以及所有的人都死了。
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man:
凡在旱地上、鼻孔有氣息的生靈都死了。
All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.
凡地上各類的活物、連人帶牲畜、昆蟲、以及空中的飛鳥、都從地上除滅了、只留下挪亞和那些與他同在方舟裡的。
And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.
水勢浩大、在地上共一百五十天。
And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days.
