凡地上的走獸、和空中的飛鳥、都必驚恐、懼怕你們．連地上一切的昆蟲、並海裡一切的魚、都交付你們的手。
And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered.
凡活著的動物、都可以作你們的食物、這一切我都賜給你們如同菜蔬一樣。
Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I given you all things.
惟獨肉帶著血、那就是他的生命、你們不可喫。
But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.
流你們血害你們命的、無論是獸、是人、我必討他的罪、就是向各人的弟兄也是如此。
And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man.
你們要生養眾多、在地上昌盛繁茂。
And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.
我與你們和你們的後裔立約．
And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you;
並與你們這裡的一切活物、就是飛鳥、牲畜、走獸．凡從方舟裡出來的活物立約。
And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.
我與你們立約、凡有血肉的、不再被洪水滅絕、也不再有洪水毀壞地了。
And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.
我把虹放在雲彩中、這就可作我與地立約的記號了。
I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.
我使雲彩蓋地的時候、必有虹現在雲彩中．
And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud:
我便記念我與你們、和各樣有血肉的活物所立的約、水就再不氾濫毀壞一切有血肉的物了。
And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
出方舟挪亞的兒子、就是閃、含、雅弗．含是迦南的父親。
And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.
這是挪亞的三個兒子．他們的後裔分散在全地。
These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread.
挪亞作起農夫來、栽了一個葡萄園。
And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
他喝了園中的酒便醉了．在帳棚裡赤著身子。
And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.
迦南的父親含、看見他父親赤身、就到外邊告訴他兩個弟兄。
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.
於是閃和雅弗、拿件衣服搭在肩上、倒退著進去、給他父親蓋上、他們背著臉就看不見父親的赤身。
And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness.
挪亞醒了酒、知道小兒子向他所作的事、
And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him.
就說、迦南當受咒詛、必給他弟兄作奴僕的奴僕。
And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.
洪水以後、挪亞又活了三百五十年。
And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.
挪亞共活了九百五十歲就死了。
And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.
