亞伯蘭帶著他的妻子與羅得、並一切所有的、都從埃及上南地去。
And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south.
亞伯蘭的金、銀、牲畜極多。
And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.
他從南地漸漸往伯特利去、到了伯特利和艾的中間、就是從前支搭帳棚的地方、
And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai;
也是他起先築壇的地方．他又在那裡求告耶和華的名。
Unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.
與亞伯蘭同行的羅得、也有牛群、羊群、帳棚。
And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.
那地容不下他們、因為他們的財物甚多、使他們不能同居。
And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together.
當時迦南人、與比利洗人、在那地居住．亞伯蘭的牧人、和羅得的牧人相爭。
And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled then in the land.
亞伯蘭就對羅得說、你我不可相爭、你的牧人和我的牧人也不可相爭、因為我們是骨肉。〔原文作弟兄〕
And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be brethren.
遍地不都在你眼前麼．請你離開我、你向左、我就向右、你向右、我就向左。
Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee, from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.
羅得舉目看見約但河的全平原、直到瑣珥、都是滋潤的、那地在耶和華未滅所多瑪、蛾摩拉以先、如同耶和華的園子、也像埃及地。
And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest unto Zoar.
於是羅得選擇約但河的全平原、往東遷移．他們就彼此分離了。
Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.
亞伯蘭住在迦南地、羅得住在平原的城邑、漸漸挪移帳棚、直到所多瑪。
Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.
所多瑪人在耶和華面前罪大惡極。
But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD exceedingly.
羅得離別亞伯蘭以後、耶和華對亞伯蘭說、從你所在的地方、你舉目向東西南北觀看．
And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward:
凡你所看見的一切地、我都要賜給你和你的後裔、直到永遠．
For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever.
我也要使你的後裔如同地上的塵沙那樣多、人若能數算地上的塵沙、纔能數算你的後裔。
And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered.
你起來、縱橫走遍這地、因為我必把這地賜給你。
Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.
亞伯蘭就搬了帳棚、來到希伯崙幔利的橡樹那裡居住、在那裡為耶和華築了一座壇。
Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.
