亞伯蘭年九十九歲的時候、耶和華向他顯現、對他說、我是全能的　神、你當在我面前作完全人。
And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me, and be thou perfect.
我就與你立約、使你的後裔極其繁多。
And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.
亞伯蘭俯伏在地、　神又對他說、
And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying,
我與你立約、你要作多國的父。
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations.
從此以後、你的名不再叫亞伯蘭、要叫亞伯拉罕、因為我已立你作多國的父。
Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.
我必使你的後裔極其繁多、國度從你而立、君王從你而出。
And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
我要與你並你世世代代的後裔堅立我的約、作永遠的約、是要作你和你後裔的　神。
And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.
我要將你現在寄居的地、就是迦南全地、賜給你和你的後裔、永遠為業．我也必作他們的　神。
And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.
　神又對亞伯拉罕說、你和你的後裔必世世代代遵守我的約。
And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore, thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.
你們所有的男子、都要受割禮、這就是我與你、並你的後裔所立的約、是你們所當遵守的。
This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.
你們都要受割禮．〔受割禮原文作割陽皮十四二十三二十四二十五節同〕這是我與你們立約的證據。
And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.
你們世世代代的男子、無論是家裡生的、是在你後裔之外用銀子從外人買的、生下來第八日、都要受割禮。
And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.
你家裡生的、和你用銀子買的、都必須受割禮．這樣、我的約就立在你們肉體上、作永遠的約。
He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
但不受割禮的男子、必從民中剪除、因他背了我的約。
And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant.
　神又對亞伯拉罕說、你的妻子撒萊、不可再叫撒萊、他的名要叫撒拉。
And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.
我必賜福給他、也要使你從他得一個兒子、我要賜福給他、他也要作多國之母、必有百姓的君王從他而出。
And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people shall be of her.
亞伯拉罕就俯伏在地喜笑、心裡說、一百歲的人、還能得孩子麼．撒拉已經九十歲了、還能生養麼。
Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?
亞伯拉罕對　神說、但願以實瑪利活在你面前。
And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!
　神說、不然、你妻子撒拉要給你生一個兒子、你要給他起名叫以撒、我要與他堅定所立的約、作他後裔永遠的約。
And God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.
至於以實瑪利、我也應允你、我必賜福給他、使他昌盛極其繁多、他必生十二個族長、我也要使他成為大國。
And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
到明年這時節、撒拉必給你生以撒、我要與他堅定所立的約。
But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.
　神和亞伯拉罕說完了話、就離開他上升去了。
And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
正當那日、亞伯拉罕遵著　神的命、給他的兒子以實瑪利和家裡的一切男子、無論是在家裡生的、是用銀子買的、都行了割禮。
And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.
亞伯拉罕受割禮的時候、年九十九歲。
And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
他兒子以實瑪利受割禮的時候、年十三歲。
And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
正當那日、亞伯拉罕和他兒子以實瑪利、一同受了割禮。
In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
家裡所有的人、無論是在家裡生的、是用銀子從外人買的、也都一同受了割禮。
And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.
