耶和華在幔利橡樹那裡、向亞伯拉罕顯現出來．那時正熱、亞伯拉罕坐在帳棚門口。
And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;
舉目觀看、見有三個人在對面站著．他一見、就從帳棚門口跑去迎接他們、俯伏在地、
And he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground,
說、我主、我若在你眼前蒙恩、求你不要離開僕人往前去。
And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant:
容我拿點水來、你們洗洗腳、在樹下歇息歇息．
Let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree:
我再拿一點餅來、你們可以加添心力、然後往前去、你們既到僕人這裡來、理當如此。他們說、就照你說的行罷。
And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.
亞伯拉罕急忙進帳棚見撒拉說、你速速拿三細亞細麵調和作餅。
And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth.
亞伯拉罕又跑到牛群裡、牽了一隻又嫩又好的牛犢來、交給僕人、僕人急忙預備好了。
And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.
亞伯拉罕又取了奶油和奶、並預備好的牛犢來、擺在他們面前、自己在樹下站在旁邊、他們就喫了。
And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.
他們問亞伯拉罕說、你妻子撒拉在那裡、他說、在帳棚裡。
And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.
三人中有一位說、到明年這時候、我必要回到你這裡、你的妻子撒拉必生一個兒子．撒拉在那人後邊的帳棚門口、也聽見了這話。
And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.
亞伯拉罕和撒拉年紀老邁、撒拉的月經已斷絕了。
Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
撒拉心裡暗笑、說、我既已衰敗、我主也老邁、豈能有這喜事呢。
Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?
耶和華對亞伯拉罕說、撒拉為甚麼暗笑、說、我既已年老、果真能生養嗎。
And the LORD said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old?
耶和華豈有難成的事麼．到了日期、明年這時候、我必回到你這裡、撒拉必生一個兒子。
Is any thing too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.
撒拉就害怕、不承認、說、我沒有笑．那位說、不然、你實在笑了。
Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.
三人就從那裡起行、向所多瑪觀看、亞伯拉罕也與他們同行、要送他們一程。
And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
耶和華說、我所要作的事、豈可瞞著亞伯拉罕呢．
And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do;
亞伯拉罕必要成為強大的國、地上的萬國都必因他得福。
Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
我眷顧他、為要叫他吩咐他的眾子、和他的眷屬、遵守我的道、秉公行義、使我所應許亞伯拉罕的話都成就了。
For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him.
耶和華說、所多瑪和蛾摩拉的罪惡甚重、聲聞於我。
And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;
我現在要下去、察看他們所行的、果然盡像那達到我耳中的聲音一樣麼．若是不然、我也必知道。
I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.
二人轉身離開那裡、向所多瑪去、但亞伯拉罕仍舊站在耶和華面前。
And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.
亞伯拉罕近前來說、無論善惡、你都要剿滅麼。
And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked?
假若那城裡有五十個義人、你還剿滅那地方麼。不為城裡這五十個義人饒恕其中的人麼。
Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein?
將義人與惡人同殺、將義人與惡人一樣看待、這斷不是你所行的．審判全地的主、豈不行公義麼。
That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?
耶和華說、我若在所多瑪城裡見有五十個義人、我就為他們的緣故、饒恕那地方的眾人。
And the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.
亞伯拉罕說、我雖然是灰塵、還敢對主說話．
And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes:
假若這五十個義人短了五個、你就因為短了五個毀滅全城麼．他說、我在那裡若見有四十五個、也不毀滅那城。
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it.
亞伯拉罕又對他說、假若在那裡見有四十個怎麼樣呢．他說、為這四十個的緣故、我也不作這事。
And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake.
亞伯拉罕說、求主不要動怒、容我說．假若在那裡見有三十個怎麼樣呢．他說、我在那裡若見有三十個、我也不作這事。
And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there.
亞伯拉罕說、我還敢對主說話、假若在那裡見有二十個怎麼樣呢．他說、為這二十個的緣故、我也不毀滅那城。
And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake.
亞伯拉罕說、求主不要動怒、我再說這一次、假若在那裡見有十個呢．他說、為這十個的緣故、我也不毀滅那城。
And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake.
耶和華與亞伯拉罕說完了話就走了．亞伯拉罕也回到自己的地方去了。
And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.
