天地萬物都造齊了。
Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
到第七日、　神造物的工已經完畢、就在第七日歇了他一切的工、安息了。
And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
　神賜福給第七日、定為聖日、因為在這日　神歇了他一切創造的工、就安息了。
And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.
創造天地的來歷、在耶和華　神造天地的日子、乃是這樣．
These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens,
野地還沒有草木、田間的菜蔬還沒有長起來、因為耶和華　神還沒有降雨在地上、也沒有人耕地。
And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground.
但有霧氣從地上騰、滋潤遍地。
But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
耶和華　神用地上的塵土造人、將生氣吹在他鼻孔裡、他就成了有靈的活人、名叫亞當。
And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
耶和華　神在東方的伊甸立了一個園子、把所造的人安置在那裡。
And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.
耶和華　神使各樣的樹從地裡長出來、可以悅人的眼目、其上的果子好作食物．園子當中又有生命樹、和分別善惡的樹。
And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
有河從伊甸流出來滋潤那園子、從那裡分為四道。
And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.
第一道名叫比遜、就是環繞哈腓拉全地的．在那裡有金子、
The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;
並且那地的金子是好的．在那裡又有珍珠和紅瑪瑙。
And the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.
第二道河名叫基訓、就是環繞古實全地的。
And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.
第三道河名叫希底結、流在亞述的東邊。第四道河就是伯拉河。
And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.
耶和華　神將那人安置在伊甸園、使他修理看守。
And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.
耶和華　神吩咐他說、園中各樣樹上的果子、你可以隨意喫．
And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:
只是分別善惡樹上的果子、你不可喫、因為你喫的日子必定死。
But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
耶和華　神說、那人獨居不好、我要為他造一個配偶幫助他。
And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him.
耶和華　神用土所造成的野地各樣走獸、和空中各樣飛鳥、都帶到那人面前看他叫甚麼．那人怎樣叫各樣的活物、那就是他的名字。
And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof.
那人便給一切牲畜、和空中飛鳥、野地走獸都起了名．只是那人沒有遇見配偶幫助他。
And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him.
耶和華　神使他沉睡、他就睡了．於是取下他的一條肋骨、又把肉合起來。
And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;
耶和華　神就用那人身上所取的肋骨、造成一個女人、領他到那人跟前。
And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
那人說、這是我骨中的骨、肉中的肉、可以稱他為女人、因為他是從男人身上取出來的。
And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
因此、人要離開父母、與妻子連合、二人成為一體。
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.
當時夫妻二人、赤身露體、並不羞恥。
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
