亞伯拉罕從那裡向南地遷去、寄居在加低斯和書珥中間的基拉耳。
And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.
亞伯拉罕稱他的妻撒拉為妹子、基拉耳王亞比米勒差人把撒拉取了去。
And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.
但夜間　神來在夢中、對亞比米勒說、你是個死人哪、因為你取了那女人來、他原是別人的妻子。
But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she is a man's wife.
亞比米勒卻還沒有親近撒拉．他說、主阿、連有義的國你也要毀滅麼。
But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou slay also a righteous nation?
那人豈不是自己對我說、他是我的妹子麼．就是女人也自己說、他是我的哥哥．我作這事、是心正手潔的。
Said he not unto me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.
　神在夢中對他說、我知道你作這事是心中正直、我也攔阻了你、免得你得罪我、所以我不容你沾著他。
And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.
現在你把這人的妻子歸還他、因為他是先知、他要為你禱告、使你存活．你若不歸還他、你當知道、你和你所有的人、都必要死。
Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.
亞比米勒清早起來、召了眾臣僕來、將這些事都說給他們聽、他們都甚懼怕。
Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.
亞比米勒召了亞伯拉罕來、對他說、你怎麼向我這樣行呢、我在甚麼事上得罪了你、你竟使我和我國裡的人陷在大罪裡．你向我行不當行的事了。
Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done.
亞比米勒又對亞伯拉罕說、你見了甚麼纔作這事呢。
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing?
亞伯拉罕說、我以為這地方的人總不懼怕　神、必為我妻子的緣故殺我。
And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake.
況且他也實在是我的妹子、他與我是同父異母、後來作了我的妻子。
And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.
當　神叫我離開父家飄流在外的時候、我對他說、我們無論走到甚麼地方、你可以對人說、他是我的哥哥．這就是你待我的恩典了。
And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.
亞比米勒把牛羊、僕婢賜給亞伯拉罕、又把他的妻子撒拉歸還他。
And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.
亞比米勒又說、看哪、我的地都在你面前、你可以隨意居住。
And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.
又對撒拉說、我給你哥哥一千銀子、作為你在閤家人面前遮羞的、〔羞原文作眼〕你就在眾人面前沒有不是了。
And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was reproved.
亞伯拉罕禱告　神、　神就醫好了亞比米勒和他的妻子、並他的眾女僕、他們便能生育。
So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.
因耶和華為亞伯拉罕的妻子撒拉的緣故、已經使亞比米勒家中的婦人、不能生育。
For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.
