耶和華按著先前的話、眷顧撒拉、便照他所說的給撒拉成就。
And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken.
當亞伯拉罕年老的時候、撒拉懷了孕．到　神所說的日期、就給亞伯拉罕生了一個兒子。
For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.
亞伯拉罕給撒拉所生的兒子起名叫以撒。
And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.
以撒生下來第八日、亞伯拉罕照著　神所吩咐的、給以撒行了割禮。
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as God had commanded him.
他兒子以撒生的時候、亞伯拉罕年一百歲。
And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him.
撒拉說、　神使我喜笑、凡聽見的必與我一同喜笑。
And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear will laugh with me.
又說、誰能預先對亞伯拉罕說、撒拉要乳養嬰孩呢、因為在他年老的時候、我給他生了一個兒子。
And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.
孩子漸長、就斷了奶．以撒斷奶的日子、亞伯拉罕設擺豐盛的筵席。
And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.
當時、撒拉看見埃及人夏甲給亞伯拉罕所生的兒子戲笑、
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking.
就對亞伯拉罕說、你把這使女、和他兒子趕出去、因為這使女的兒子、不可與我的兒子以撒、一同承受產業。
Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac.
亞伯拉罕因他兒子的緣故很憂愁。
And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son.
　神對亞伯拉罕說、你不必為這童子和你的使女憂愁、凡撒拉對你說的話、你都該聽從．因為從以撒生的、纔要稱為你的後裔。
And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
至於使女的兒子、我也必使他的後裔成立一國、因為他是你所生的。
And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation, because he is thy seed.
亞伯拉罕清早起來、拿餅和一皮袋水、給了夏甲、搭在他的肩上、又把孩子交給他、打發他走．夏甲就走了、在別是巴的曠野走迷了路。
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.
皮袋的水用盡了、夏甲就把孩子撇在小樹底下、
And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.
自己走開約有一箭之遠、相對而坐、說、我不忍見孩子死、就相對而坐、放聲大哭。
And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.
　神聽見童子的聲音．　神的使者從天上呼叫夏甲說、夏甲、你為何這樣呢、不要害怕、　神已經聽見童子的聲音了。
And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.
起來、把童子抱在懷中、〔懷原文作手〕我必使他的後裔成為大國。
Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will make him a great nation.
　神使夏甲的眼睛明亮、他就看見一口水井、便去將皮袋盛滿了水、給童子喝。
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.
　神保佑童子、他就漸長、住在曠野、成了弓箭手。
And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer.
他住在巴蘭的曠野、他母親從埃及地給他娶了一個妻子。
And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
當那時候、亞比米勒同他軍長非各、對亞伯拉罕說、凡你所行的事、都有　神的保佑。
And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest:
我願你如今在這裡指著　神對我起誓、不要欺負我與我的兒子、並我的子孫、我怎樣厚待了你、你也要照樣厚待我、與你所寄居這地的民。
Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.
亞伯拉罕說、我情願起誓。
And Abraham said, I will swear.
從前亞比米勒的僕人、霸佔了一口水井、亞伯拉罕為這事指責亞比米勒。
And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.
亞比米勒說、誰作這事我不知道、你也沒有告訴我、今日我纔聽見了。
And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing: neither didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.
亞伯拉罕把羊和牛給了亞比米勒、二人就彼此立約。
And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant.
亞伯拉罕把七隻母羊羔另放在一處。
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.
亞比米勒問亞伯拉罕說、你把這七隻母羊羔另放在一處、是甚麼意思呢。
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves?
他說、你要從我手裡受這七隻母羊羔、作我挖這口井的證據。
And he said, For these seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this well.
所以他給那地方起名叫別是巴、因為他們二人在那裡起了誓。〔別是巴就是盟誓的井〕
Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they sware both of them.
他們在別是巴立了約．亞比米勒就同他軍長非各、起身回非利士地去了。
Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.
亞伯拉罕在別是巴栽上一棵垂絲柳樹、又在那裡求告耶和華永生　神的名。
And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.
亞伯拉罕在非利士人的地寄居了多日。
And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.
