撒拉享壽一百二十七歲、這是撒拉一生的歲數。
And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these were the years of the life of Sarah.
撒拉死在迦南地的基列亞巴、就是希伯崙、亞伯拉罕為他哀慟哭號。
And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.
後來亞伯拉罕從死人面前起來、對赫人說、
And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying,
我在你們中間是外人、是寄居的、求你們在這裡給我一塊地、我好埋葬我的死人、使他不在我眼前。
I am a stranger and a sojourner with you: give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.
赫人回答亞伯拉罕說、
And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him,
我主請聽、你在我們中間是一位尊大的王子、只管在我們最好的墳地裡埋葬你的死人、我們沒有一人不容你在他的墳地裡埋葬你的死人。
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.
亞伯拉罕就起來、向那地的赫人下拜。
And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth.
對他們說、你們若有意叫我埋葬我的死人、使他不在我眼前、就請聽我的話、為我求瑣轄的兒子以弗崙、
And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar,
把田頭上那麥比拉洞給我、他可以按著足價賣給我、作我在你們中間的墳地。
That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you.
當時以弗崙正坐在赫人中間．於是赫人以弗崙、在城門出入的赫人、面前對亞伯拉罕說、
And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying,
不然、我主請聽、我送給你這塊田、連田間的洞、也送給你、在我同族的人面前都給你、可以埋葬你的死人。
Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead.
亞伯拉罕就在那地的人民面前下拜。
And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.
在他們面前對以弗崙說、你若應允、請聽我的話、我要把田價給你、求你收下、我就在那裡埋葬我的死人。
And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead there.
以弗崙回答亞伯拉罕說、
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him,
我主請聽、值四百舍客勒銀子的一塊田、在你我中間還算甚麼呢、只管埋葬你的死人罷。
My lord, hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.
亞伯拉罕聽從了以弗崙、照著他在赫人面前所說的話、把買賣通用的銀子、平了四百舍客勒給以弗崙。
And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.
於是麥比拉、幔利前、以弗崙的那塊田、和其中的洞、並田間四圍的樹木、
And the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were made sure
都定準歸與亞伯拉罕、乃是他在赫人面前、並城門出入的人面前買妥的。
Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.
此後、亞伯拉罕把他妻子撒拉埋葬在迦南地幔利前的麥比拉田間的洞裡、幔利就是希伯崙。
And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan.
從此、那塊田、和田間的洞、就藉著赫人定準、歸與亞伯拉罕作墳地。
And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.
