以撒年老、眼睛昏花、不能看見、就叫了他大兒子以掃來、說、我兒、以掃說、我在這裡。
And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.
他說、我如今老了、不知道那一天死。
And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death:
現在拿你的器械、就是箭囊、和弓、往田野去為我打獵．
Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison;
照我所愛的作成美味、拿來給我喫、使我在未死之先、給你祝福。
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.
以撒對他兒子以掃說話、利百加也聽見了。以掃往田野去打獵、要得野味帶來。
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.
利百加就對他兒子雅各說、我聽見你父親對你哥哥以掃說、
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying,
你去把野獸帶來、作成美味給我喫、我好在未死之先、在耶和華面前給你祝福。』
Bring me venison, and make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD before my death.
現在我兒、你要照著我所吩咐你的、聽從我的話。
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee.
你到羊群裡去、給我拿兩隻肥山羊羔來、我便照你父親所愛的、給他作成美味。
Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth:
你拿到你父親那裡給他喫、使他在未死之先、給你祝福。
And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.
雅各對他母親利百加說、我哥哥以掃渾身是有毛的、我身上是光滑的．
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man:
倘若我父親摸著我、必以我為欺哄人的、我就招咒詛、不得祝福。
My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.
他母親對他說、我兒、你招的咒詛歸到我身上、你只管聽我的話、去把羊羔給我拿來。
And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.
他便去拿來、交給他母親、他母親就照他父親所愛的、作成美味。
And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.
利百加又把家裡所存大兒子以掃上好的衣服、給他小兒子雅各穿上。
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
又用山羊羔皮、包在雅各的手上、和頸項的光滑處．
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck:
就把所作的美味和餅、交在他兒子雅各的手裡。
And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
雅各到他父親那裡說、我父親、他說、我在這裡、我兒、你是誰。
And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I; who art thou, my son?
雅各對他父親說、我是你的長子以掃、我已照你所吩咐我的行了．請起來坐著、喫我的野味、好給我祝福。
And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.
以撒對他兒子說、我兒、你如何找得這麼快呢．他說、因為耶和華你的　神使我遇見好機會得著的。
And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it to me.
以撒對雅各說、我兒、你近前來、我摸摸你、知道你真是我的兒子以掃不是。
And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.
雅各就挨近他父親以撒．以撒摸著他說、聲音是雅各的聲音、手卻是以掃的手。
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
以撒就辨不出他來、因為他手上有毛、像他哥哥以掃的手一樣、就給他祝福。
And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.
又說、你真是我兒子以掃麼、他說、我是。
And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.
以撒說、你遞給我、我好喫我兒子的野味、給你祝福。雅各就遞給他、他便喫了．又拿酒給他、他也喝了。
And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat: and he brought him wine, and he drank.
他父親以撒對他說、我兒、你上前來與我親嘴。
And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me, my son.
他就上前與父親親嘴．他父親一聞他衣服上的香氣、就給他祝福、說、我兒的香氣如同耶和華賜福之田地的香氣一樣。
And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed:
願　神賜你天上的甘露、地上的肥土、並許多五穀新酒．
Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine:
願多民事奉你、多國跪拜你．願你作你弟兄的主、你母親的兒子向你跪拜．凡咒詛你的、願他受咒詛．為你祝福的、願他蒙福。
Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.
以撒為雅各祝福已畢、雅各從他父親那裡纔出來、他哥哥以掃正打獵回來。
And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
也作了美味、拿來給他父親、說、請父親起來、喫你兒子的野味、好給我祝福。
And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.
他父親以撒對他說、你是誰、他說、我是你的長子以掃。
And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.
以撒就大大的戰兢、說、你未來之先、是誰得了野味拿來給我呢、我已經喫了、為他祝福、他將來也必蒙福。
And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be blessed.
以掃聽了他父親的話、就放聲痛哭、說、我父阿、求你也為我祝福。
And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father.
以撒說、你兄弟已經用詭計來將你的福分奪去了。
And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away thy blessing.
以掃說、他名雅各豈不是正對麼．因為他欺騙了我兩次、他從前奪了我長子的名分、你看、他現在又奪了我的福分。以掃又說、你沒有留下為我可祝的福麼。
And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?
以撒回答以掃說、我已立他為你的主、使他的弟兄都給他作僕人、並賜他五穀新酒可以養生、我兒、現在我還能為你作甚麼呢。
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?
以掃對他父親說、父阿、你只有一樣可祝的福麼、我父阿、求你也為我祝福．以掃就放聲而哭。
And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.
他父親以撒說、地上的肥土必為你所住、天上的甘露必為你所得．
And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above;
你必倚靠刀劍度日、又必事奉你的兄弟、到你強盛的時候、必從你頸項上掙開他的軛。
And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.
以掃因他父親給雅各祝的福、就怨恨雅各、心裡說、為我父親居喪的日子近了、到那時候、我要殺我的兄弟雅各。
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.
有人把利百加大兒子以掃的話告訴利百加、他就打發人去、叫了他小兒子雅各來、對他說、你哥哥以掃想要殺你、報仇雪恨。
And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to kill thee.
現在我兒、你要聽我的話、起來逃往哈蘭我哥哥拉班那裡去．
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; and arise, flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran;
同他住些日子、直等你哥哥的怒氣消了．
And tarry with him a few days, until thy brother's fury turn away;
你哥哥向你消了怒氣、忘了你向他所作的事、我便打發人去把你從那裡帶回來．為甚麼一日喪你們二人呢。
Until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you both in one day?
利百加對以撒說、我因這赫人的女子、連性命都厭煩了．倘若雅各也娶赫人的女子為妻、像這些一樣、我活著還有甚麼益處呢。
And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me?
