以撒叫了雅各來、給他祝福．並囑咐他說、你不要娶迦南的女子為妻。
And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
你起身往巴旦亞蘭去、到你外祖彼土利家裡、在你母舅拉班的女兒中、娶一女為妻。
Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban thy mother's brother.
願全能的　神賜福給你、使你生養眾多、成為多族、
And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people;
將應許亞伯拉罕的福賜給你、和你的後裔、使你承受你所寄居的地為業、就是　神賜給亞伯拉罕的地。
And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham.
以撒打發雅各走了、他就往巴旦亞蘭去、到亞蘭人彼土利的兒子拉班那裡．拉班是雅各以掃的母舅。
And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
以掃見以撒已經給雅各祝福、而且打發他往巴旦亞蘭去、在那裡娶妻、並見祝福的時候囑咐他說、不要娶迦南的女子為妻．
When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
又見雅各聽從父母的話、往巴旦亞蘭去了．
And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padanaram;
以掃就曉得他父親以撒看不中迦南的女子、
And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father;
便往以實瑪利那裡去、在他二妻之外、又娶了瑪哈拉為妻．他是亞伯拉罕兒子以實瑪利的女兒、尼拜約的妹子。
Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife.
雅各出了別是巴向哈蘭走去。
And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.
到了一個地方、因為太陽落了、就在那裡住宿．便拾起那地方的一塊石頭、枕在頭下、在那裡躺臥睡了。
And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.
夢見一個梯子立在地上、梯子的頭頂著天、有　神的使者在梯子上、上去下來。
And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it.
耶和華站在梯子以上、〔或作站在他旁邊〕說、我是耶和華你祖亞伯拉罕的　神、也是以撒的　神、我要將你現在所躺臥之地賜給你、和你的後裔．
And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed;
你的後裔必像地上的塵沙那樣多、必向東西南北開展．地上萬族必因你和你的後裔得福．
And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
我也與你同在、你無論往那裡去、我必保佑你、領你歸回這地、總不離棄你、直到我成全了向你所應許的。
And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.
雅各睡醒了、說、耶和華真在這裡、我竟不知道。
And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not.
就懼怕說、這地方何等可畏、這不是別的、乃是　神的殿、也是天的門。
And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.
雅各清早起來、把所枕的石頭立作柱子、澆油在上面。
And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.
他就給那地方起名、叫伯特利．〔就是　神殿的意思〕但那地方起先名叫路斯。
And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of that city was called Luz at the first.
雅各許願、說、　神若與我同在、在我所行的路上保佑我、又給我食物喫、衣服穿、
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on,
使我平平安安的回到我父親的家、我就必以耶和華為我的　神、
So that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the LORD be my God:
我所立為柱子的石頭、也必作　神的殿．凡你所賜給我的、我必將十分之一獻給你。
And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.
