耶和華　神所造的、惟有蛇比田野一切的活物更狡猾。蛇對女人說、　神豈是真說、不許你們喫園中所有樹上的果子麼。
Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?
女人對蛇說、園中樹上的果子我們可以喫．
And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
惟有園當中那棵樹上的果子、　神曾說、你們不可喫、也不可摸、免得你們死。
But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
蛇對女人說、你們不一定死、
And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:
因為　神知道、你們喫的日子眼睛就明亮了、你們便如　神能知道善惡。
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.
於是女人見那棵樹的果子好作食物、也悅人的眼目、且是可喜愛的、能使人有智慧、就摘下果子來喫了．又給他丈夫、他丈夫也喫了。
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.
他們二人的眼睛就明亮了、纔知道自己是赤身露體、便拿無花果樹的葉子、為自己編作裙子。
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
天起了涼風、耶和華　神在園中行走。那人和他妻子聽見　神的聲音、就藏在園裡的樹木中、躲避耶和華　神的面。
And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.
耶和華　神呼喚那人、對他說、你在那裡。
And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?
他說、我在園中聽見你的聲音、我就害怕、因為我赤身露體．我便藏了。
And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.
耶和華說、誰告訴你赤身露體呢、莫非你喫了我吩咐你不可喫的那樹上的果子麼。
And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
那人說、你所賜給我、與我同居的女人、他把那樹上的果子給我、我就喫了。
And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.
耶和華　神對女人說、你作的是甚麼事呢。女人說、那蛇引誘我、我就喫了。
And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.
耶和華　神對蛇說、你既作了這事、就必受咒詛、比一切的牲畜野獸更甚、你必用肚子行走、終身喫土。
And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life:
我又要叫你和女人彼此為仇、你的後裔和女人的後裔、也彼此為仇．女人的後裔要傷你的頭、你要傷他的腳跟。
And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
又對女人說、我必多多加增你懷胎的苦楚、你生產兒女必多受苦楚．你必戀慕你丈夫、你丈夫必管轄你。
Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.
又對亞當說、你既聽從妻子的話、喫了我所吩咐你不可喫的那樹上的果子、地必為你的緣故受咒詛．你必終身勞苦、纔能從地裡得喫的。
And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;
地必給你長出荊棘和蒺藜來、你也要喫田間的菜蔬。
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;
你必汗流滿面纔得糊口、直到你歸了土、因為你是從土而出的．你本是塵土、仍要歸於塵土。
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.
亞當給他妻子起名叫夏娃、因為他是眾生之母。
And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.
耶和華　神為亞當和他妻子用皮子作衣服、給他們穿。
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and clothed them.
耶和華　神說、那人已經與我們相似、能知道善惡．現在恐怕他伸手又摘生命樹的果子喫、就永遠活著．
And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:
耶和華　神便打發他出伊甸園去、耕種他所自出之土。
Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.
於是把他趕出去了．又在伊甸園的東邊安設基路伯、和四面轉動發火焰的劍、要把守生命樹的道路。
So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
