雅各聽見拉班的兒子們有話說、雅各把我們父親所有的都奪了去、並藉著我們父親的、得了這一切的榮耀。〔榮耀或作財〕
And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory.
雅各見拉班的氣色向他不如從前了。
And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before.
耶和華對雅各說、你要回你祖你父之地、到你親族那裡去、我必與你同在。
And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.
雅各就打發人、叫拉結和利亞到田野羊群那裡來．
And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock,
對他們說、我看你們父親的氣色向我不如從前了．但我父親的　神向來與我同在。
And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me.
你們也知道、我盡了我的力量服事你們的父親。
And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.
你們的父親欺哄我、十次改了我的工價．然而　神不容他害我。
And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me.
他若說、有點的歸你作工價、羊群所生的都有點．他若說、有紋的歸你作工價、羊群所生的都有紋。
If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.
這樣、　神把你們父親的牲畜奪來賜給我了。
Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given them to me.
羊配合的時候、我夢中舉目一看、見跳母羊的公羊、都是有紋的、有點的、有花斑的。
And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.
　神的使者在那夢中呼叫我說、雅各。我說、我在這裡。
And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob: And I said, Here am I.
他說、你舉目觀看、跳母羊的公羊都是有紋的、有點的、有花斑的．凡拉班向你所作的、我都看見了。
And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.
我是伯特利的　神．你在那裡用油澆過柱子、向我許過願．現今你起來離開這地、回你本地去罷。
I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.
拉結和利亞回答雅各說、在我們父親的家裡還有我們可得的分麼、還有我們的產業麼。
And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house?
我們不是被他當作外人麼．因為他賣了我們、吞了我們的價值。
Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money.
　神從我們父親所奪出來的一切財物、那就是我們、和我們孩子們的．現今凡　神所吩咐你的、你只管去行罷。
For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do.
雅各起來、使他的兒子和妻子都騎上駱駝．
Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
又帶著他在巴旦亞蘭所得的一切牲畜和財物、往迦南地、他父親以撒那裡去了。
And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.
當時拉班剪羊毛去了．拉結偷了他父親家中的神像。
And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's.
雅各背著亞蘭人拉班偷走了、並不告訴他。
And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled.
就帶著所有的逃跑．他起身過大河、面向基列山行去。
So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.
到第三日、有人告訴拉班、雅各逃跑了。
And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.
拉班帶領他的眾弟兄去追趕、追了七日、在基列山就追上了。
And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.
夜間　神到亞蘭人拉班那裡、在夢中對他說、你要小心、不可與雅各說好說歹。
And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
拉班追上雅各、雅各在山上支搭帳棚．拉班和他的眾弟兄、也在基列山上支搭帳棚。
Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.
拉班對雅各說、你作的是甚麼事呢、你背著我偷走了、又把我的女兒們帶了去、如同用刀劍擄去的一般。
And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives taken with the sword?
你為甚麼暗暗的逃跑、偷著走、並不告訴我、叫我可以歡樂、唱歌、擊鼓、彈琴的送你回去。
Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?
又不容我與外孫和女兒親嘴．你所行的真是愚昧。
And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou hast now done foolishly in so doing.
我手中原有能力害你、只是你父親的　神昨夜對我說、你要小心、不可與雅各說好說歹。
It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
現在你雖然想你父家、不得不去、為甚麼又偷了我的神像呢。
And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore longedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods?
雅各回答拉班說、恐怕你把你的女兒從我奪去、所以我逃跑。
And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me.
至於你的神像、你在誰那裡搜出來、就不容誰存活．當著我們的眾弟兄你認一認、在我這裡有甚麼東西是你的、就拿去。原來雅各不知道拉結偷了那些神像。
With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.
拉班進了雅各、利亞、並兩個使女的帳棚、都沒有搜出來．就從利亞的帳棚出來、進了拉結的帳棚。
And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.
拉結已經把神像藏在駱駝的馱簍裡、便坐在上頭、拉班摸遍了那帳棚、並沒有摸著。
Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but found them not.
拉結對他父親說、現在我身上不便、不能在你面前起來、求我主不要生氣．這樣、拉班搜尋神像、竟沒有搜出來。
And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he searched, but found not the images.
雅各就發怒斥責拉班說、我有甚麼過犯、有甚麼罪惡、你竟這樣火速的追我。
And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me?
你摸遍了我一切的家具、你搜出甚麼來呢、可以放在你我弟兄面前、叫他們在你我中間辨別辨別。
Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both.
我在你家這二十年、你的母綿羊、母山羊、沒有掉過胎．你群中的公羊、我沒有喫過．
This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten.
被野獸撕裂的、我沒有帶來給你、是我自己賠上、無論是白日、是黑夜、被偷去的、你都向我索要。
That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by day, or stolen by night.
我白日受盡乾熱、黑夜受盡寒霜、不得合眼睡著、我常是這樣。
Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.
我這二十年在你家裡、為你的兩個女兒服事你十四年、為你的羊群服事你六年、你又十次改了我的工價。
Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle: and thou hast changed my wages ten times.
若不是我父親以撒所敬畏的　神、就是亞伯拉罕的　神與我同在、你如今必定打發我空手而去．　神看見我的苦情、和我的勞碌、就在昨夜責備你。
Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee yesternight.
拉班回答雅各說、這女兒是我的女兒、這些孩子是我的孩子、這些羊群也是我的羊群、凡在你眼前的都是我的．我的女兒、並他們所生的孩子、我今日能向他們作甚麼呢。
And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
來罷、你我二人可以立約、作你我中間的證據。
Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and let it be for a witness between me and thee.
雅各就拿一塊石頭立作柱子。
And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.
又對眾弟兄說、你們堆聚石頭．他們就拿石頭來堆成一堆、大家便在旁邊喫喝。
And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.
拉班稱那石堆為伊迦爾撒哈杜他、雅各卻稱那石堆為迦累得。〔都是以石堆為證的意思〕
And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.
拉班說、今日這石堆作你我中間的證據．因此這地方名叫迦累得、
And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this day. Therefore was the name of it called Galeed;
又叫米斯巴、意思說、我們彼此離別以後、願耶和華在你我中間鑒察。
And Mizpah; for he said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from another.
你若苦待我的女兒、又在我的女兒以外另娶妻、雖沒有人知道、卻有　神在你我中間作見證。
If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness betwixt me and thee.
拉班又說、你看我在你我中間所立的這石堆、和柱子．
And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee:
這石堆作證據、這柱子也作證據、我必不過這石堆去害你、你也不可過這石堆和柱子、來害我．
This heap be witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me, for harm.
但願亞伯拉罕的　神、和拿鶴的　神、就是他們父親的　神、在你我中間判斷．雅各就指著他父親以撒所敬畏的　神起誓。
The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac.
又在山上獻祭、請眾弟兄來喫飯．他們喫了飯、便在山上住宿。
Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night in the mount.
拉班清早起來、與他外孫和女兒親嘴、給他們祝福、回往自己的地方去了。
And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto his place.
