雅各仍舊行路、　神的使者遇見他。
And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
雅各看見他們就說、這是　神的軍兵．於是給那地方起名叫瑪哈念。〔就是二軍兵的意思〕
And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.
雅各打發人先往西珥地去、就是以東地、見他哥哥以掃。
And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.
吩咐他們說、你們對我主以掃說、你的僕人雅各這樣說、我在拉班那裡寄居、直到如今。
And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now:
我有牛、驢、羊群、僕婢、現在打發人來報告我主、為要在你眼前蒙恩。
And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight.
所打發的人回到雅各那裡說、我們到了你哥哥以掃那裡、他帶著四百人、正迎著你來。
And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him.
雅各就甚懼怕、而且愁煩、便把那與他同在的人口、和羊群、牛群、駱駝、分作兩隊．
Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands;
說、以掃若來擊殺這一隊、剩下的那一隊還可以逃避。
And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.
雅各說、耶和華我祖亞伯拉罕的　神、我父親以撒的　神阿、你曾對我說、回你本地本族去、我要厚待你。
And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee:
你向僕人所施的一切慈愛和誠實、我一點也不配得．我先前只拿著我的杖過這約但河、如今我卻成了兩隊了。
I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands.
求你救我脫離我哥哥以掃的手、因為我怕他來殺我、連妻子帶兒女一同殺了。
Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the children.
你曾說、我必定厚待你、使你的後裔如同海邊的沙、多得不可勝數。
And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.
當夜雅各在那裡住宿、就從他所有的物中拿禮物、要送給他哥哥以掃．
And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother;
母山羊二百隻、公山羊二十隻、母綿羊二百隻、公綿羊二十隻、
Two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams,
奶崽子的駱駝三十隻、各帶著崽子、母牛四十隻、公牛十隻、母驢二十匹、驢駒十匹．
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals.
每樣各分一群、交在僕人手下、就對僕人說、你們要在我前頭過去、使群群相離有空閒的地方。
And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove.
又吩咐儘先走的說、我哥哥以掃遇見你的時候、問你說、你是那家的人、要往那裡去、你前頭這些是誰的．
And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee?
你就說、是你僕人雅各的、是送給我主以掃的禮物、他自己也在我們後邊。
Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.
又吩咐第二、第三、和一切趕群畜的人說、你們遇見以掃的時候、也要這樣對他說．
And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him.
並且你們要說、你僕人雅各在我們後邊．因雅各心裡說、我藉著在我前頭去的禮物解他的恨、然後再見他的面、或者他容納我。
And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.
於是禮物先過去了．那夜雅各在隊中住宿。
So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company.
他夜間起來、帶著兩個妻子、兩個使女、並十一個兒子都過了雅博渡口。
And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.
先打發他們過河、又打發所有的都過去．
And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had.
只剩下雅各一人．有一個人來和他摔跤、直到黎明。
And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.
那人見自己勝不過他、就將他的大腿窩摸了一把、雅各的大腿窩、正在摔跤的時候就扭了。
And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.
那人說、天黎明了、容我去罷．雅各說、你不給我祝福、我就不容你去。
And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.
那人說、你名叫甚麼、他說、我名叫雅各。
And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.
那人說、你的名不要再叫雅各、要叫以色列、因為你與　神與人較力、都得了勝。
And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.
雅各問他說、請將你的名告訴我．那人說、何必問我的名．於是在那裡給雅各祝福。
And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there.
雅各便給那地方起名叫毗努伊勒。〔就是　神之面的意思〕意思說、我面對面見了　神、我的性命仍得保全。
And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.
日頭剛出來的時候、雅各經過毗努伊勒、他的大腿就瘸了。
And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh.
故此以色列人不喫大腿窩的筋、直到今日、因為那人摸了雅各大腿窩的筋。
Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.
