雅各舉目觀看、見以掃來了、後頭跟著四百人．他就把孩子們分開交給利亞、拉結、和兩個使女．
And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.
並且叫兩個使女和他們的孩子在前頭、利亞和他的孩子在後頭、拉結和約瑟在儘後頭。
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.
他自己在他們前頭過去、一連七次俯伏在地、纔就近他哥哥。
And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
以掃跑來迎接他、將他抱住、又摟著他的頸項與他親嘴、兩個人就哭了。
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept.
以掃舉目看見婦人孩子、就說、這些和你同行的是誰呢．雅各說、這些孩子是　神施恩給你的僕人的。
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant.
於是兩個使女和他們的孩子前來下拜。
Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves.
利亞和他的孩子也前來下拜．隨後約瑟和拉結也前來下拜。
And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.
以掃說、我所遇見的這些群畜是甚麼意思呢．雅各說、是要在我主面前蒙恩的。
And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.
以掃說、兄弟阿、我的已經夠了、你的仍歸你罷。
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself.
雅各說、不然、我若在你眼前蒙恩、就求你從我手裡收下這禮物、因為我見了你的面、如同見了　神的面、並且你容納了我。
And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me.
求你收下我帶來給你的禮物、因為　神恩待我、使我充足．雅各再三的求他、他纔收下了。
Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he took it.
以掃說、我們可以起身前往、我在你前頭走．
And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee.
雅各對他說、我主知道孩子們年幼嬌嫩、牛羊也正在乳養的時候、若是催趕一天、群畜都必死了。
And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.
求我主在僕人前頭走．我要量著在我面前群畜和孩子的力量慢慢的前行、直走到西珥我主那裡。
Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.
以掃說、容我把跟隨我的人留幾個在你這裡．雅各說、何必呢、只要在我主眼前蒙恩就是了。
And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the sight of my lord.
於是以掃當日起行、回往西珥去了。
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.
雅各就往疏割去、在那裡為自己蓋造房屋、又為牲畜搭棚．因此那地方名叫疏割。〔就是棚的意思〕
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.
雅各從巴旦亞蘭回來的時候、平平安安的到了迦南地的示劍城、在城東支搭帳棚。
And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city.
就用一百塊銀子向示劍的父親哈抹的子孫、買了支帳棚的那塊地。
And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred pieces of money.
在那裡築了一座壇、起名叫伊利伊羅伊以色列。〔就是　神以色列　神的意思〕
And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.
