利亞給雅各所生的女兒底拿出去、要見那地的女子們。
And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
那地的主希未人、哈抹的兒子示劍、看見他、就拉住他、與他行淫、玷辱他。
And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.
示劍的心繫戀雅各的女兒底拿、喜愛這女子、甜言蜜語的安慰他。
And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.
示劍對他父親哈抹說、求你為我聘這女子為妻。
And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife.
雅各聽見示劍玷污了他的女兒底拿．那時他的兒子們正和群畜在田野、雅各就閉口不言、等他們回來。
And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come.
示劍的父親哈抹出來見雅各、要和他商議。
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him.
雅各的兒子們聽見這事、就從田野回來、人人忿恨、十分惱怒、因示劍在以色列家作了醜事、與雅各的女兒行淫、這本是不該作的事。
And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter; which thing ought not to be done.
哈抹和他們商議說、我兒子示劍的心戀慕這女子、求你們將他給我的兒子為妻。
And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.
你們與我們彼此結親、你們可以把女兒給我們、也可以娶我們的女兒。
And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you.
你們與我們同住罷、這地都在你們面前、只管在此居住、作買賣、置產業。
And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.
示劍對女兒的父親和弟兄們說、但願我在你們眼前蒙恩．你們向我要甚麼我必給你們。
And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.
任憑向我要多重的聘金和禮物、我必照你們所說的給你們、只要把女子給我為妻。
Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.
雅各的兒子們、因為示劍玷污了他們的妹子底拿、就用詭詐的話回答示劍、和他父親哈抹．
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
對他們說、我們不能把我們的妹子給沒有受割禮的人為妻、因為那是我們的羞辱．
And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:
惟有一件纔可以應允、若你們所有的男丁都受割禮、和我們一樣、
But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised;
我們就把女兒給你們、也娶你們的女兒、我們便與你們同住、兩下成為一樣的人民。
Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people.
倘若你們不聽從我們受割禮、我們就帶著妹子走了。
But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.
哈抹和他的兒子示劍喜歡這話。
And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son.
那少年人作這事並不遲延、因為他喜愛雅各的女兒．他在他父親家中也是人最尊重的。
And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the house of his father.
哈抹和他兒子示劍到本城的門口、對本城的人說、
And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying,
這些人與我們和睦、不如許他們在這地居住作買賣．這地也寬闊、足可容下他們、我們可以娶他們的女兒為妻、也可以把我們的女兒嫁給他們。
These men are peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters.
惟有一件事我們必須作、他們纔肯應允、和我們同住、成為一樣的人民、就是我們中間所有的男丁、都要受割禮、和他們一樣。
Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised.
他們的群畜、貨財、和一切的牲口、豈不都歸我們麼．只要依從他們、他們就與我們同住。
Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of theirs be ours? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell with us.
凡從城門出入的人、就都聽從哈抹和他兒子示劍的話、於是凡從城門出入的男丁、都受了割禮。
And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city.
到第三天、眾人正在疼痛的時候、雅各的兩個兒子、就是底拿的哥哥、西緬和利未、各拿刀劍、趁著眾人想不到的時候、來到城中、把一切男丁都殺了。
And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.
又用刀殺了哈抹和他兒子示劍、把底拿從示劍家裡帶出來、就走了。
And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.
雅各的兒子們因為他們的妹子受了玷污、就來到被殺的人那裡、擄掠那城、
The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister.
奪了他們的羊群、牛群、和驢、並城裡田間所有的．
They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field,
又把他們一切貨財、孩子、婦女、並各房中所有的、都擄掠去了。
And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.
雅各對西緬和利未說、你們連累我、使我在這地的居民中、就是在迦南人、和比利洗人中、有了臭名、我的人丁既然稀少、他們必聚集來擊殺我、我和全家的人、都必滅絕。
And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.
他們說、他豈可待我們的妹子如同妓女麼。
And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
