　神對雅各說、起來、上伯特利去、住在那裡、要在那裡築一座壇給　神、就是你逃避你哥哥以掃的時候向你顯現的那位。
And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.
雅各就對他家中的人、並一切與他同在的人說、你們要除掉你們中間的外邦神、也要自潔、更換衣裳。
Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments:
我們要起來、上伯特利去．在那裡我要築一座壇給　神、就是在我遭難的日子、應允我的禱告、在我行的路上保佑我的那位。
And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.
他們就把外邦人的神像、和他們耳朵上的環子、交給雅各．雅各都藏在示劍那裡的橡樹底下。
And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
他們便起行前往．　神使那周圍城邑的人都甚驚懼、就不追趕雅各的眾子了。
And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.
於是雅各和一切與他同在的人、到了迦南地的路斯、就是伯特利。
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.
他在那裡築了一座壇、就給那地方起名叫伊勒伯特利、〔就是伯特利之　神的意思〕因為他逃避他哥哥的時候、　神在那裡向他顯現。
And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother.
利百加的奶母底波拉死了、就葬在伯特利下邊橡樹底下．那棵樹名叫亞倫巴古。
But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.
雅各從巴旦亞蘭回來、　神又向他顯現賜福與他．
And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him.
且對他說、你的名原是雅各、從今以後不要再叫雅各、要叫以色列、這樣、他就改名叫以色列。
And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel.
　神又對他說、我是全能的　神、你要生養眾多、將來有一族、和多國的民從你而生、又有君王從你而出。
And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins;
我所賜給亞伯拉罕和以撒的地、我要賜給你、與你的後裔。
And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land.
　神就從那與雅各說話的地方升上去了。
And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.
雅各便在那裡立了一根石柱、在柱子上奠酒、澆油．
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon.
雅各就給那地方起名叫伯特利。
And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel.
他們從伯特利起行、離以法他還有一段路程、拉結臨產甚是艱難．
And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.
正在艱難的時候、收生婆對他說、不要怕、你又要得一個兒子了。
And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.
他將近於死、靈魂要走的時候、就給他兒子起名叫便俄尼、他父親卻給他起名叫便雅憫。
And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin.
拉結死了、葬在以法他的路旁．以法他就是伯利恆。
And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.
雅各在他的墳上立了一統碑、就是拉結的墓碑、到今日還在。
And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day.
以色列起行前往、在以得臺那邊支搭帳棚。
And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar.
以色列住在那地的時候、流便去與他父親的妾辟拉同寢、以色列也聽見了。雅各共有十二個兒子。
And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:
利亞所生的、是雅各的長子流便、還有西緬、利未、猶大、以薩迦、西布倫。
The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun:
拉結所生的是約瑟、便雅憫。
The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin:
拉結的使女辟拉所生的是但、拿弗他利。
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali:
利亞的使女悉帕所生的是迦得、亞設、這是雅各在巴旦亞蘭所生的兒子。
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid; Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.
雅各來到他父親以撒那裡、到了基列亞巴的幔利、乃是亞伯拉罕和以撒寄居的地方．基列亞巴就是希伯崙。
And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
以撒共活了一百八十歲。
And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.
以撒年紀老邁、日子滿足、氣絕而死、歸到他列祖〔原文作本民〕那裡．他兩個兒子以掃雅各把他埋葬了。
And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
