以掃就是以東、他的後代、記在下面．
Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.
以掃娶迦南的女子為妻、就是赫人以倫的女兒亞大、和希未人祭便的孫女、亞拿的女兒阿何利巴瑪。
Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite;
又娶了以實瑪利的女兒、尼拜約的妹子巴實抹。
And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebajoth.
亞大給以掃生了以利法、巴實抹生了流珥。
And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel;
阿何利巴瑪生了耶烏施、雅蘭、可拉．這都是以掃的兒子、是在迦南地生的。
And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.
以掃帶著他的妻子、兒女、與家中一切的人口、並他的牛羊、牲畜、和一切貨財、就是他在迦南地所得的、往別處去、離了他兄弟雅各。
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob.
因為二人的財物群畜甚多、寄居的地方容不下他們、所以不能同居。
For their riches were more than that they might dwell together; and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle.
於是以掃住在西珥山裡、以掃就是以東。
Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.
以掃是西珥山裡以東人的始祖．他的後代、記在下面．
And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in mount Seir:
以掃眾子的名字如下．以掃的妻子亞大生以利法、以掃的妻子巴實抹生流珥。
These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau.
以利法的兒子是提幔、阿抹、洗玻、迦坦、基納斯。
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
亭納是以掃兒子以利法的妾．他給以利法生了亞瑪力．這是以掃的妻子亞大的子孫。
And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.
流珥的兒子是拿哈、謝拉、沙瑪、米撒．這是以掃妻子巴實抹的子孫。
And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.
以掃的妻子阿何利巴瑪、是祭便的孫女、亞拿的女兒、他給以掃生了耶烏施、雅蘭、可拉。
And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
以掃子孫中作族長的、記在下面．以掃的長子、以利法的子孫中、有提幔族長、阿抹族長、洗玻族長、基納斯族長、
These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
可拉族長、迦坦族長、亞瑪力族長．這是在以東地從以利法所出的族長、都是亞大的子孫。
Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.
以掃的兒子流珥的子孫中、有拿哈族長、謝拉族長、沙瑪族長、米撒族長．這是在以東地從流珥所出的族長、都是以掃妻子巴實抹的子孫。
And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.
以掃的妻子、阿何利巴瑪的子孫中、有耶烏施族長、雅蘭族長、可拉族長．這是從以掃妻子、亞拿的女兒、阿何利巴瑪子孫中、所出的族長。
And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
以上的族長、都是以掃的子孫、以掃就是以東。
These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes.
那地原有的居民何利人、西珥的子孫、記在下面．就是羅坍、朔巴、祭便、亞拿、
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,
底順、以察、底珊、這是從以東地的何利人．西珥子孫中、所出的族長。
And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.
羅坍的兒子是何利、希幔．羅坍的妹子是亭納。
And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
朔巴的兒子是亞勒文、瑪拿轄、以巴錄、示玻、阿南。
And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
祭便的兒子是亞雅、亞拿、當時在曠野、放他父親祭便的驢、遇著溫泉的、就是這亞拿。
And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father.
亞拿的兒子是底順、亞拿的女兒是阿何利巴瑪。
And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah.
底順的兒子是欣但、伊是班、益蘭、基蘭。
And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
以察的兒子是辟罕、撒番、亞干。
The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.
底珊的兒子是烏斯、亞蘭。
The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.
從何利人所出的族長、記在下面．就是羅坍族長、朔巴族長、祭便族長、亞拿族長、
These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah,
底順族長、以察族長、底珊族長．這是從何利人所出的族長、都在西珥地、按著宗族作族長。
Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir.
以色列人未有君王治理以先、在以東地作王的、記在下面．
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel.
比珥的兒子比拉在以東作王、他的京城名叫亭哈巴。
And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
比拉死了、波斯拉人、謝拉的兒子約巴接續他作王。
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.
約巴死了、提幔地的人戶珊接續他作王。
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead.
戶珊死了、比達的兒子哈達接續他作王．這哈達就是在摩押地殺敗米甸人的、他的京城名叫亞未得。
And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith.
哈達死了、瑪士利加人桑拉接續他作王。
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.
桑拉死了、大河邊的利河伯人掃羅接續他作王。
And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead.
掃羅死了、亞革波的兒子巴勒哈南接續他作王。
And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.
亞革波的兒子巴勒哈南死了、哈達接續他作王、他的京城名叫巴烏．他的妻子名叫米希他別、是米薩合的孫女、瑪特列的女兒。
And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
從以掃所出的族長、按著他們的宗族、住處、名字、記在下面．就是亭納族長、亞勒瓦族長、耶帖族長、
And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth,
阿何利巴瑪族長、以拉族長、比嫩族長、
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,
基納斯族長、提幔族長、米比薩族長、
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,
瑪基疊族長、以蘭族長．這是以東人在所得為業的地上、按著他們的住處、所有的族長、都是以東人的始祖、以掃的後代。
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of the Edomites.
