雅各住在迦南地、就是他父親寄居的地。
And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan.
雅各的記略如下．約瑟十七歲與他哥哥們一同牧羊、他是個童子、與他父親的妾、辟拉悉帕的兒子們常在一處．約瑟將他哥哥們的惡行、報給他們的父親。
These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.
以色列原來愛約瑟過於愛他的眾子、因為約瑟是他年老生的、他給約瑟作了一件彩衣。
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.
約瑟的哥哥們見父親愛約瑟過於愛他們、就恨約瑟、不與他說和睦的話。
And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.
約瑟作了一夢、告訴他哥哥們、他們就越發恨他。
And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more.
約瑟對他們說、請聽我所作的夢．
And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:
我們在田裡捆禾稼、我的捆起來站著、你們的捆來圍著我的捆下拜。
For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.
他的哥哥們回答說、難道你真要作我們的王麼、難道你真要管轄我們麼．他們就因為他的夢、和他的話、越發恨他。
And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words.
後來他又作了一夢、也告訴他的哥哥們說、看哪、我又作了一夢、夢見太陽、月亮、與十一個星、向我下拜。
And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.
約瑟將這夢告訴他父親、和他哥哥們、他父親就責備他說、你作的這是甚麼夢、難道我和你母親、你弟兄、果然要來俯伏在地、向你下拜麼。
And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?
他哥哥們都嫉妒他．他父親卻把這話存在心裡。
And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying.
約瑟的哥哥們往示劍去、放他們父親的羊。
And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.
以色列對約瑟說、你哥哥們不是在示劍放羊麼、你來、我要打發你往他們那裡去。約瑟說、我在這裡。
And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I.
以色列說、你去看看你哥哥們平安不平安、群羊平安不平安、就回來報信給我．於是打發他出希伯崙谷、他就往示劍去了。
And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.
有人遇見他在田野走迷了路、就問他說、你找甚麼。
And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?
他說、我找我的哥哥們、求你告訴我、他們在何處放羊。
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks.
那人說、他們已經走了、我聽見他們說、要往多坍去．約瑟就去追趕他哥哥們、遇見他們在多坍。
And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan.
他們遠遠的看見他、趁他還沒有走到跟前、大家就同謀要害死他。
And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him.
彼此說、你看、那作夢的來了。
And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.
來罷、我們將他殺了、丟在一個坑裡、就說有惡獸把他喫了、我們且看他的夢將來怎麼樣。
Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams.
流便聽見了要救他脫離他們的手、說、我們不可害他的性命。
And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands; and said, Let us not kill him.
又說、不可流他的血、可以把他丟在這野地的坑裡、不可下手害他．流便的意思是要救他脫離他們的手、把他歸還他的父親。
And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.
約瑟到了他哥哥們那裡、他們就剝了他的外衣、就是他穿的那件彩衣．
And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him;
把他丟在坑裡．那坑是空的、裡頭沒有水。
And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it.
他們坐下喫飯、舉目觀看、見有一夥米甸的以實瑪利人、從基列來、用駱駝馱著香料、乳香、沒藥、要帶下埃及去。
And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt.
猶大對眾弟兄說、我們殺我們的兄弟、藏了他的血、有甚麼益處呢。
And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?
我們不如將他賣給以實瑪利人、不可下手害他、因為他是我們的兄弟、我們的骨肉．眾弟兄就聽從了他。
Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.
有些米甸的商人、從那裡經過、哥哥們就把約瑟從坑裡拉上來、講定二十舍客勒銀子、把約瑟賣給以實瑪利人．他們就把約瑟帶到埃及去了。
Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.
流便回到坑邊、見約瑟不在坑裡、就撕裂衣服。
And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes.
回到兄弟們那裡、說、童子沒有了、我往那裡去纔好呢。
And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go?
他們宰了一隻公山羊、把約瑟的那件彩衣染了血．
And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood;
打發人送到他們的父親那裡說、我們撿了這個、請認一認、是你兒子的外衣不是。
And they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's coat or no.
他認得、就說、這是我兒子的外衣、有惡獸把他喫了、約瑟被撕碎了、撕碎了。
And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.
雅各便撕裂衣服、腰間圍上麻布、為他兒子悲哀了多日。
And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days.
他的兒女都起來安慰他．他卻不肯受安慰、說、我必悲哀著下陰間到我兒子那裡．約瑟的父親就為他哀哭。
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.
米甸人帶約瑟到埃及、把他賣給法老的內臣、護衛長波提乏。
And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.
