過了兩年法老作夢．夢見自己站在河邊。
And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.
有七隻母牛從河裡上來、又美好、又肥壯在蘆荻中喫草。
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.
隨後又有七隻母牛從河裡上來、又醜陋、又乾瘦、與那七隻母牛一同站在河邊。
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river.
這又醜陋、又乾瘦的七隻母牛、喫盡了那又美好、又肥壯的七隻母牛．法老就醒了。
And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.
他又睡著、第二回作夢．夢見一棵麥子長了七個穗子、又肥大、又佳美。
And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.
隨後又長了七個穗子、又細弱、又被東風吹焦了。
And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them.
這細弱的穗子、吞了那七個又肥大又飽滿的穗子．法老醒了、不料是個夢。
And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.
到了早晨、法老心裡不安、就差人召了埃及所有的術士和博士來．法老就把所作的夢告訴他們、卻沒有人能給法老圓解。
And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.
那時酒政對法老說、我今日想起我的罪來．
Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day:
從前法老惱怒臣僕、把我和膳長下在護衛長府佈的監裡。
Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker:
我們二人同夜各作一夢、各夢都有講解。
And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream.
在那裡同著我們有一個希伯來的少年人、是護衛長的僕人、我們告訴他、他就把我們的夢圓解、是按著各人的夢圓解的。
And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.
後來正如他給我們圓解的成就了．我官復原職、膳長被挂起來了。
And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.
法老遂即差人去召約瑟．他們便急忙帶他出監、他就剃頭、刮臉、換衣裳、進到法老面前。
Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.
法老對約瑟說、我作了一夢沒有人能解、我聽見人說、你聽了夢就能解。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it.
約瑟回答法老說、這不在乎我、　神必將平安的話回答法老。
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace.
法老對約瑟說、我夢見我站在河邊．
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river:
有七隻母牛從河裡上來、又肥壯、又美好、在蘆荻中喫草。
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow:
隨後又有七隻母牛上來、又軟弱、又醜陋、又乾瘦、在埃及遍地、我沒有見過這樣不好的。
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness:
這又乾瘦、又醜陋的母牛、喫盡了那以先的七隻肥母牛。
And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine:
喫了以後、卻看不出是喫了、那醜陋的樣子仍舊和先前一樣．我就醒了。
And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.
我又夢見一棵麥子、長了七個穗子、又飽滿、又佳美．
And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good:
隨後又長了七個穗子、枯槁細弱、被東風吹焦了。
And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them:
這些細弱的穗子、吞了那七個佳美的穗子．我將這夢告訴了術士、卻沒有人能給我解說。
And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.
約瑟對法老說、法老的夢乃是一個、　神已將所要作的事指示法老了。
And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.
七隻好母牛是七年．七個好穗子也是七年．這夢乃是一個。
The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one.
那隨後上來的七隻又乾瘦、又醜陋的母牛是七年、那七個虛空被東風吹焦的穗子也是七年．都是七個荒年。
And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine.
這就是我對法老所說、　神已將所要作的事顯明給法老了。
This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.
埃及遍地必來七個大豊年．
Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt:
隨後又要來七個荒年、甚至埃及地都忘了先前的豊收、全地必被饑荒所滅。
And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land;
因那以後的饑荒甚大、便不覺得先前的豊收了。
And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous.
至於法老兩回作夢、是因　神命定這事、而且必速速成就。
And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.
所以法老當揀選一個有聰明有智慧的人、派他治理埃及地。
Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.
法老當這樣行、又派官員管理這地．當七個豊年的時候、征收埃及地的五分之一．
Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years.
叫他們把將來豊年一切的糧食聚斂起來、積蓄五穀、收存在各城裡作食物、歸於法老的手下。
And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities.
所積蓄的糧食、可以防備埃及地將來的七個荒年、免得這地被饑荒所滅。
And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine.
法老和他一切臣僕、都以這事為妙。
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.
法老對臣僕說、像這樣的人、有　神的靈在他裡頭、我們豈能找得著呢。
And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?
法老對約瑟說、　神既將這事都指示你、可見沒有人像你這樣有聰明有智慧。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art:
你可以掌管我的家、我的民都必聽從你的話、惟獨在寶座上我比你大。
Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou.
法老又對約瑟說、我派你治理埃及全地。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt.
法老就摘下手上打印的戒指、戴在約瑟的手上．給他穿上細麻衣、把金鍊戴在他的頸項上。
And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck;
又叫約瑟坐他的副車、喝道的在前呼叫說、跪下．這樣、法老派他治理埃及全地。
And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.
法老對約瑟說、我是法老、在埃及全地、若沒有你的命令、不許人擅自辦事。〔原文作動手動腳〕
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.
法老賜名給約瑟、叫撒發那忒巴內亞．又將安城的祭司波提非拉的女兒亞西納、給他為妻。約瑟就出去巡行埃及地。
And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.
約瑟見埃及王法老的時候、年三十歲．他從法老面前出去遍行埃及全地。
And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt.
七個豊年之內、地的出產極豊極盛。〔原文作一把一把的〕
And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls.
約瑟聚歛埃及地七個豐年一切的糧食、把糧食積存在各城裡、各城周圍田地的糧食、都積存在本城裡。
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.
約瑟積蓄五穀甚多、如同海邊的沙、無法計算、因為穀不可勝數。
And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for it was without number.
荒年未到以前、安城的祭司波提非拉的女兒亞西納給約瑟生了兩個兒子．
And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.
約瑟給長子起名叫瑪拿西、〔就是使之忘了的意思〕因為他說、　神使我忘了一切的困苦、和我父的全家。
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God, said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house.
他給次子起名叫以法蓮、〔就是使之昌盛的意思〕因為他說、　神使我在受苦的地方昌盛。
And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.
埃及地的七個豊年一完、
And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of Egypt, were ended.
七個荒年就來了、正如約瑟所說的．各地都有饑荒、惟獨埃及全地有糧食。
And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
及至埃及全地有了饑荒、眾民向法老哀求糧食、法老對他們說、你們往約瑟那裡去、凡他所說的你們都要作。
And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do.
當時饑荒遍滿天下、約瑟開了各處的倉、糶糧給埃及人．在埃及地饑荒甚大。
And the famine was over all the face of the earth: And Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.
各地的人都往埃及去、到約瑟那裡糴糧、因為天下的饑荒甚大。
And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn; because that the famine was so sore in all lands.
