約瑟在左右站著的人面前、情不自禁、吩咐一聲說、人都要離開我出去．約瑟和弟兄相認的時候、並沒有一人站在他面前。
Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren.
他就放聲大哭、埃及人、和法老家中的人都聽見了。
And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard.
約瑟對他弟兄們說、我是約瑟、我的父親還在麼．他弟兄不能回答、因為在他面前都驚惶。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence.
約瑟又對他弟兄們說、請你們近前來、他們就近前來．他說、我是你們的兄弟約瑟、就是你們所賣到埃及的。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.
現在不要因為把我賣到這裡、自憂自恨、這是　神差我在你們以先來、為要保全生命。
Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.
現在這地的饑荒已經二年了、還有五年不能耕種、不能收成。
For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest.
　神差我在你們以先來、為要給你們存留餘種在世上、又要大施拯救、保全你們的生命。
And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.
這樣看來、差我到這裡來的不是你們、乃是　神、他又使我如法老的父、作他全家的主、並埃及全地的宰相。
So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt.
你們要趕緊上到我父親那裡、對他說、你兒子約瑟這樣說、　神使我作全埃及的主、請你下到我這裡來、不要耽延。
Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me, tarry not:
你和你我兒子、孫子、連牛群、羊群、並一切所有的、都可以住在歌珊地、與我相近．
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast:
我要在那裡奉養你．因為還有五年的饑荒、免得你和你的眷屬、並一切所有的、都敗落了。
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.
況且你們的眼和我兄弟便雅憫的眼、都看見是我親口對你們說話。
And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.
你們也要將我在埃及一切的榮耀、和你們所看見的事、都告訴我父親、又要趕緊的將我父親搬到我這裡來。
And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.
於是約瑟伏在他兄弟便雅憫的頸項上哭、便雅憫也在他的頸項上哭。
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck.
他又與眾弟兄親嘴、抱著他們哭、隨後他弟兄就和他說話。
Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him.
這風聲傳到法老的宮裡、說、約瑟的弟兄們來了．法老和他的臣僕都很喜歡。
And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.
法老對約瑟說、你吩咐你的弟兄們說、你們要這樣行、把馱子抬在牲口上、起身往迦南地去。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye; lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan;
將你們的父親和你們的眷屬、都搬到我這裡來、我要把埃及地的美物賜給你們、你們也要喫這地肥美的出產。
And take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.
現在我吩咐你們要這樣行、從埃及地帶著車輛去、把你們的孩子、和妻子、並你們的父親都搬來。
Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.
你們眼中不要愛惜你們的家具、因為埃及全地的美物、都是你們的。
Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.
以色列的兒子們就如此行、約瑟照著法老的吩咐給他們車輛、和路上用的食物。
And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.
又給他們各人一套衣服、惟獨給便雅憫三百銀子、五套衣服．
To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment.
送給他父親公驢十匹、馱著埃及的美物、母驢十匹、馱著糧食與餅、和菜、為他父親路上用。
And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way.
於是約瑟打發他弟兄們回去、又對他們說、你們不要在路上相爭。
So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.
他們從埃及上去、來到迦南地、他們的父親雅各那裡．
And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father,
告訴他說、約瑟還在、並且作埃及全地的宰相．雅各心裡冰涼、因為不信他們。
And told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not.
他們便將約瑟對他們說的一切話、都告訴了他．他們父親雅各、又看見約瑟打發來接他的車輛、心就甦醒了。
And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived:
以色列說、罷了、罷了、我的兒子約瑟還在、趁我未死以先、我要去見他一面。
And Israel said, It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before I die.
