以色列帶著一切所有的、起身來到別是巴、就獻祭給他父親以撒的　神。
And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.
夜間　神在異象中對以色列說、雅各、雅各．他說、我在這裡。
And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.
　神說、我是　神、就是你父親的　神、你下埃及去不要害怕、因為我必使你在那裡成為大族。
And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation:
我要和你同下埃及去、也必定帶你上來．約瑟必給你送終。〔原文作將手按在你的眼睛上〕
I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.
雅各就從別是巴起行．以色列的兒子們使他們的父親雅各、和他們的妻子、兒女、都坐在法老為雅各送來的車上。
And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
他們又帶著迦南地所得的牲畜、貨財、來到埃及．雅各和他的一切子孫都一同來了。
And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him:
雅各把他的兒子、孫子、女兒、孫女、並他的子子孫孫、一同帶到埃及。
His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt.
來到埃及的以色列人、名字記在下面．雅各和他的兒孫、雅各的長子是流便。
And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.
流便的兒子是哈諾、法路、希斯倫、迦米。
And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
西緬的兒子是耶母利、雅憫、阿轄、雅斤、瑣轄．還有迦南女子所生的掃羅。
And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.
利未的兒子是革順、哥轄、米拉利。
And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
猶大的兒子是珥、俄南、示拉、法勒斯、謝拉．惟有珥與俄南死在迦南地。法勒斯的兒子是希斯倫、哈母勒。
And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.
以薩迦的兒子是陀拉、普瓦、約伯、伸崙。
And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.
西布倫的兒子是西烈、以倫、雅利。
And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.
這是利亞在巴旦亞蘭給雅各所生的兒子、還有女兒底拿．兒孫共三十三人。
These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three.
迦得的兒子是洗非芸、哈基、書尼、以斯本、以利、亞羅底、亞列利。
And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
亞設的兒子是音拿、亦施瓦、亦施韋、比利亞、還有他們的妹子西拉。比利亞的兒子是希別、瑪結。
And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.
這是拉班給他女兒利亞的婢女悉帕、從雅各所生的兒孫、共有十六人。
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.
雅各之妻拉結的兒子是約瑟、和便雅憫。
The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.
約瑟在埃及地生了瑪拿西和以法蓮、就是安城的祭司波提非拉的女兒亞西納給約瑟生的。
And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.
便雅憫的兒子是比拉、比結、亞實別、基拉、乃幔、以希、羅實、母平、戶平、亞勒．
And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
這是拉結給雅各所生的兒孫、共有十四人。
These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen.
但的兒子是戶伸。
And the sons of Dan; Hushim.
拿弗他利的兒子是雅薛、沽尼、耶色、示冷。
And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.
這是拉班給他女兒拉結的婢女辟拉、從雅各所生的兒孫、共有七人。
These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.
那與雅各同到埃及的、除了他兒婦之外、凡從他所生的、共有六十六人。
All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore and six;
還有約瑟在埃及所生的兩個兒子．雅各家來到埃及的共有七十人。
And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into Egypt, were threescore and ten.
雅各打發猶大先去見約瑟、請派人引路往歌珊去．於是他們來到歌珊地。
And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.
約瑟套車往歌珊去、迎接他父親以色列．及至見了面、就伏在父親的頸項上、哭了許久。
And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.
以色列對約瑟說、我既得見你的面、知道你還在、就是死我也甘心。
And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, because thou art yet alive.
約瑟對他的弟兄、和他父的全家說、我要上去告訴法老、對他說、我的弟兄和我父的全家、從前在迦南地、現今都到我這裡來了。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house, I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my father's house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;
他們本是牧羊的人、以養牲畜為業、他們把羊群、牛群、和一切所有的都帶來了。
And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.
等法老召你們的時候、問你們說、你們以何事為業、
And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your occupation?
你們要說、你的僕人從幼年直到如今、都以養牲畜為業、連我們的祖宗也都以此為業。這樣、你們可以住在歌珊地、因為凡牧羊的都被埃及人所厭惡。
That ye shall say, Thy servants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now, both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.
