約瑟進去告訴法老說、我的父親和我的弟兄帶著羊群、牛群、並一切所有的、從迦南地來了、如今在歌珊地。
Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land of Goshen.
約瑟從他弟兄中挑出五個人來、引他們去見法老。
And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented them unto Pharaoh.
法老問約瑟的弟兄說、你們以可事為業．他們對法老說、你僕人是牧羊的、連我們的祖宗、也是牧羊的。
And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also our fathers.
他們又對法老說、迦南地的饑荒甚大、僕人的羊群沒有草喫、所以我們來到這地寄居．現在求你容僕人住在歌珊地。
They said moreover unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.
法老對約瑟說、你父親和你弟兄到你這裡來了．
And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee:
埃及地都在你面前、只管叫你父親和你弟兄住在國中最好的地、他們可以住在歌珊地．你若知道他們中間有甚麼能人、就派他們看管我的牲畜。
The land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activity among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.
約瑟領他父親雅各進到法老面前、雅各就給法老祝福。
And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
法老問雅各說、你平生的年日是多少呢。
And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou?
雅各對法老說、我寄居在世的年日是一百三十歲、我平生的年日又少、又苦、不及我列祖早在世寄居的年日。
And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.
雅各又給法老祝福、就從法老面前出去了。
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.
約瑟遵著法老的命、把埃及國最好的地、就是蘭塞境內的地、給他父親和弟兄居住、作為產業。
And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
約瑟用糧食奉養他父親、和他弟兄、並他父親全家的眷屬、都是照各家的人口奉養他們。
And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his father's household, with bread, according to their families.
饑荒甚大、全地都絕了糧、甚至埃及地和迦南地的人、因那饑荒的緣故、都餓昏了。
And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine.
約瑟收聚了埃及地和迦南地所有的銀子、就是眾人糴糧的銀子、約瑟就把那銀子帶到法老的宮裡。
And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.
埃及地和迦南地的銀子都花盡了、埃及眾人都來見約瑟說、我們的銀子都用盡了、求你給我們糧食、我們為甚麼死在你面前呢。
And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.
約瑟說、若是銀子用盡了、可以把你們的牲畜給我、我就為你們的牲畜給你們糧食。
And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail.
於是他們把牲畜趕到約瑟那裡、約瑟就拿糧食換了他們的牛、羊、驢、馬、那一年因換他們一切的牲畜、就用糧食養活他們。
And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year.
那一年過去、第二年他們又來見約瑟說、我們不瞞我主、我們的銀子都花盡了、牲畜也都歸了我主、我們在我主眼前除了我們的身體和田地之外、一無所剩。
When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
你何忍見我們人死地荒呢．求你用糧食買我們的我們的地、我們和我們的地就要給法老效力．又求你給我們種子、使我們得以存活、不至死亡、地土也不至荒涼。
Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that the land be not desolate.
於是約瑟為法老買了埃及所有的地、埃及人因被饑荒所迫、各都賣了自己的田地．那地就都歸了法老。
And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh's.
至於百姓、約瑟叫他們從埃及這邊、直到埃及那邊、都各歸各城。
And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.
惟有祭司的地、約瑟沒有買、因為祭司有從法老所得的常俸、他們喫法老所給的常俸、所以他們不賣自己的地。
Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.
約瑟對百姓說、我今日為法老買了你們、和你們的地、看哪、這裡有種子給你們、你們可以種地。
Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land.
後來打糧食的時候、你們要把五分之一納給法老、四分可以歸你們作地裡的種子、也作你們和你們家口孩童的食物。
And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones.
他們說、你救了我們的性命、但願我們在我主眼前蒙恩、我們就作法老的僕人。
And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.
於是約瑟為埃及地定下常例直到今日、法老必得五分之一、惟獨祭司的地不歸法老。
And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth part; except the land of the priests only, which became not Pharaoh's.
以色列人住在埃及的歌珊地、他們在那裡置了產業、並且生育甚多。
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied exceedingly.
雅各住在埃及地十七年、雅各平生的年日是一百四十七歲。
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.
以色列的死期臨近了、他就叫了他兒子約瑟來、說、我若在你眼前蒙恩、請你把手放在我大腿底下、用慈愛和誠實待我、請你不要將我葬在埃及．
And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt:
我與我祖我父同睡的時候、你要將我帶出埃及、葬在他們所葬的地方。約瑟說、我必遵著你的命而行。
But I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.
雅各說、你要向我起誓、約瑟就向他起了誓、於是以色列在床頭上〔或作扶著杖頭〕敬拜　神。
And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head.
