這事以後、有人告訴約瑟說、你的父親病了．他就帶著兩個兒子瑪拿西和以法蓮同去。
And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.
有人告訴雅各說、請看、你兒子約瑟到你這裡來了．以色列就勉強在床上坐起來。
And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.
雅各對約瑟說、全能的　神曾在迦南地的路斯向我顯現、賜福與我。
And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me,
對我說、我必使你生養眾多、成為多民、又要把這地賜給你的後裔、永遠為業。
And said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession.
我未到埃及見你之先、你在埃及地所生的以法蓮和瑪拿西、這兩個兒子是我的．正如流便和西緬是我的一樣。
And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.
你在他們以後所生的、就是你的、他們可以歸於他們弟兄的名下得產業。
And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine, and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance.
至於我、我從巴旦來的時候、拉結死在我眼前、在迦南地的路上、離以法他還有一段路程、我就把他葬在以法他的路上．以法他就是伯利恆。
And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same is Bethlehem.
以色列看見約瑟的兩個兒子、就說、這是誰。
And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these?
約瑟對他父親說、這是　神在這裡賜給我的兒子．以色列說、請你領他們到我跟前、我要給他們祝福。
And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them.
以色列年紀老邁、眼睛昏花、不能看見、約瑟領他們到他跟前、他就和他們親嘴、抱著他們。
Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see. And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.
以色列對約瑟說、我想不到得見你的面、不料、　神又使我得見你的兒子。
And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face: and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.
約瑟把兩個兒子從以色列兩膝中領出來、自己就臉伏於地下拜。
And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.
隨後約瑟又拉著他們兩個、以法蓮在他的右手裡、對著以色列的左手、瑪拿西在他的左手裡、對著以色列的右手、領他們到以色列的跟前。
And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him.
以色列伸出右手來、按在以法蓮的頭上．以法蓮乃是次子、又剪搭過左手來、按在瑪拿西的頭上、瑪拿西原是長子．
And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.
他就給約瑟祝福、說、願我祖亞伯拉罕、和我父以撒所事奉的　神、就是一生牧養我直到今日的　神、
And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day,
救贖我脫離一切患難的那使者、賜福與這兩個童子、願他們歸在我的名下、和我祖亞伯拉罕、我父以撒的名下、又願他們在世界中生養眾多。
The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.
約瑟見他父親把右手按在以法蓮的頭上、就不喜悅、便提起他父親的手、要從以法蓮的頭上挪到瑪拿西的頭上。
And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head.
約瑟對他父親說、我父不是這樣、這本是長子、求你把右手按在他的頭上。
And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.
他父親不從、說、我知道、我兒、我知道、他也必成為一族、也必昌大。只是他的兄弟將來比他還大、他兄弟的後裔要成為多族。
And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it: he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations.
當日就給他們祝福、說、以色列人要指著你們祝福、說、願　神使你如以法蓮瑪拿西一樣．於是立以法蓮在瑪拿西以上。
And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.
以色列又對約瑟說、我要死了、但　神必與你們同在、領你們回到你們列祖之地。
And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.
並且我從前用弓用刀、從亞摩利人手下奪的那塊地、我都賜給你、使你比眾弟兄多得一分。
Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.
