雅各叫了他的兒子們來、說、你們都來聚集、我好把你們日後必遇的事告訴你們。
And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days.
雅各的兒子們、你們要聚集而聽、要聽你們父親以色列的話。
Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father.
流便哪、你是我的長子、是我力量強壯的時候生的、本當大有尊榮、權力超眾．
Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power:
但你放縱情慾、滾沸如水、必不得居首位、因為你上了你父親的床、污穢了我的榻。
Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to thy father's bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.
西緬和利未是弟兄、他們的刀劍是殘忍的器具。
Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their habitations.
我的靈阿、不要與他們同謀、我的心哪、不要與他們聯絡、因為他們趁怒殺害人命、任意砍斷牛腿大筋．
O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly, mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man, and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.
他們的怒氣暴烈可咒．他們的忿恨殘忍可詛．我要使他們分居在雅各家裡、散住在以色列地中。
Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.
猶大阿、你弟兄們必讚美你、你手必掐住仇敵的頸項、你父親的兒子們必向你下拜。
Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down before thee.
猶大是個小獅子．我兒阿、你抓了食便上去．你屈下身去、臥如公獅、蹲如母獅、誰敢惹你。
Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up?
圭必不離猶大、杖必不離他兩腳之間、直等細羅〔就是賜平安者〕來到、萬民都必歸順。
The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be.
猶大把小驢拴在葡萄樹上、把驢駒拴在美好的葡萄樹上、他在葡萄酒中洗了衣服、在葡萄汁中洗了袍褂。
Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto the choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes:
他的眼睛必因酒紅潤、他的牙齒必因奶白亮。
His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk.
西布倫必住在海口、必成為停船的海口．他的境界必延到西頓。
Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.
以薩迦是個強壯的驢、臥在羊圈之中．
Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:
他以安靜為佳、以肥地為美、便低肩背重、成為服苦的僕人。
And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it was pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto tribute.
但必判斷他的民、作以色列支派之一。
Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.
但必作道上的蛇、路中的虺、咬傷馬蹄、使騎馬的墜落於後。
Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.
耶和華阿、我向來等候你的救恩。
I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.
迦得必被敵軍追逼、他卻要追逼他們的腳跟。
Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the last.
亞設之地必出肥美的糧食、且出君王的美味。
Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties.
拿弗他利是被釋放的母鹿、他出嘉美的言語。
Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.
約瑟是多結果子的樹枝、是泉旁多結果的枝子、他的枝條探出牆外。
Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall:
弓箭手將他苦害、向他射箭、逼迫他．
The archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him:
但他的弓仍舊堅硬、他的手健壯敏捷．這是因以色列的牧者、以色列的磐石、就是雅各的大能者．
But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel:)
你父親的　神、必幫助你、那全能者、必將天上所有的福、地裡所藏的福、以及生產乳養的福、都賜給你。
Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb:
你父親所祝的福、勝過我祖先所祝的福、如永世的山嶺、至極的邊界、這些福必降在約瑟的頭上、臨列那與弟兄迥別之人的頂上。
The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.
便雅憫是個撕掠的狼、早晨要喫他所抓的、晚上要分他所奪的。
Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.
這一切是以色列的十二支派．這也是他們的父親對他們所說的話、為他們所祝的福、都是按著各人的福分、為他們祝福。
All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them.
他又囑咐他們說、我將要歸到我列祖〔原文作本民〕那裡、你們要將我葬在赫人以弗崙田間的洞裡、與我祖我父在一處、
And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
就是在迦南地幔利前、麥比拉田間的洞．那洞和田、是亞伯拉罕向赫人以弗崙買來為業、作墳地的。
In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace.
他們在那裡葬了亞伯拉罕和他妻子撒拉．又在那裡葬了以撒、和他妻子利百加．我也在那裡葬了利亞。
There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.
那塊田和田間的洞、原是向赫人買的。
The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth.
雅各囑咐眾子已畢、就把腳收在床上、氣絕而死、歸到列祖〔原文作本民〕那裡去了。
And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.
