亞當的後代、記在下面。當　神造人的日子、是照著自己的樣式造的、
This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;
並且造男造女、在他們被造的日子、　神賜福給他們、稱他們為人。
Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
亞當活到一百三十歲、生了一個兒子、形像樣式和自己相似、就給他起名叫塞特。
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:
亞當生塞特之後、又在世八百年．並且生兒養女。
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:
亞當共活了九百三十歲就死了。
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.
塞特活到一百零五歲、生了以挪士。
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos:
塞特生以挪士之後、又活了八百零七年．並且生兒養女。
And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:
塞特共活了九百一十二歲就死了。
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.
以挪士活到九十歲、生了該南。
And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan:
以挪士生該南之後、又活了八百一十五年．並且生兒養女。
And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters:
以挪士共活了九百零五歲就死了。
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.
該南活到七十歲、生了瑪勒列。
And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel:
該南生瑪勒列之後、又活了八百四十年．並且生兒養女。
And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters:
該南共活了九百一十歲就死了。
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.
瑪勒列活到六十五歲、生了雅列。
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared:
瑪勒列生雅列之後、又活了八百三十年．並且生兒養女。
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters:
瑪勒列共活了八百九十五歲就死了。
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.
雅列活到一百六十二歲、生了以諾。
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch:
雅列生以諾之後、又活了八百年．並且生兒養女。
And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:
雅列共活了九百六十二歲就死了。
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died.
以諾活到六十五歲、生了瑪土撒拉。
And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah:
以諾生瑪土撒拉之後、與　神同行三百年．並且生兒養女。
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:
以諾共活了三百六十五歲。
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:
以諾與　神同行、　神將他取去、他就不在世了。
And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.
瑪土撒拉活到一百八十七歲、生了拉麥。
And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech:
瑪土撒拉生拉麥之後、又活了七百八十二年．並且生兒養女。
And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters:
瑪土撒拉共活了九百六十九歲就死了。
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.
拉麥活到一百八十二歲、生了一個兒子、
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son:
給他起名叫挪亞、說、這個兒子必為我們的操作、和手中的勞苦、安慰我們．這操作勞苦是因為耶和華咒詛地。
And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed.
拉麥生挪亞之後、又活了五百九十五年．並且生兒養女。
And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters:
拉麥共活了七百七十七歲就死了。
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.
挪亞五百歲生了閃、含、雅弗。
And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
