當人在世上多起來、又生女兒的時候、
And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them,
　神的兒子們看見人的女子美貌、就隨意挑選、娶來為妻。
That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.
耶和華說、人既屬乎血氣、我的靈就不永遠住在他裡面、然而他的日子還可到一百二十年。
And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.
那時候有偉人在地上、後來　神的兒子們、和人的女子們交合生子、那就是上古英武有名的人。
There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.
耶和華見人在地上罪惡很大、終日所思想的盡都是惡．
And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
耶和華就後悔造人在地上、心中憂傷。
And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.
耶和華說、我要將所造的人、和走獸、並昆蟲、以及空中的飛鳥、都從地上除滅、因為我造他們後悔了。
And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.
惟有挪亞在耶和華眼前蒙恩。
But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.
挪亞的後代、記在下面。挪亞是個義人、在當時的世代是個完全人．挪亞與　神同行。
These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God.
挪亞生了三個兒子、就是閃、含、雅弗。
And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
世界在　神面前敗壞．地上滿了強暴。
The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.
　神觀看世界、見是敗壞了．凡有血氣的人、在地上都敗壞了行為。
And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.
　神就對挪亞說、凡有血氣的人、他的盡頭已經來到我面前、因為地上滿了他們的強暴、我要把他們和地一併毀滅。
And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
你要用歌斐木造一隻方舟、分一間一間的造、裡外抹上松香。
Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.
方舟的造法乃是這樣、要長三百肘、寬五十肘、高三十肘。
And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.
方舟上邊要留透光處、高一肘．方舟的門要開在旁邊．方舟要分上、中、下三層。
A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.
看哪、我要使洪水氾濫在地上、毀滅天下、凡地上有血肉、有氣息的活物、無一不死。
And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.
我卻要與你立約、你同你的妻、與兒子、兒婦、都要進入方舟。
But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee.
凡有血肉的活物、每樣兩個、一公一母、你要帶進方舟、好在你那裡保全生命。
And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be male and female.
飛鳥各從其類、牲畜各從其類、地上的昆蟲各從其類、每樣兩個、要到你那裡、好保全生命。
Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.
你要拿各樣食物積蓄起來、好作你和他們的食物。
And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.
挪亞就這樣行．凡　神所吩咐的、他都照樣行了。
Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.
