　神記念挪亞、和挪亞方舟裡的一切走獸牲畜．　神叫風吹地、水勢漸落。
And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged;
淵源和天上的窗戶、都閉塞了、天上的大雨也止住了。
The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;
水從地上漸退．過了一百五十天、水就漸消。
And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.
七月十七日、方舟停在亞拉臘山上。
And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
水又漸消、到十月初一日、山頂都現出來了。
And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.
過了四十天、挪亞開了方舟的窗戶、
And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made:
放出一隻烏鴉去、那烏鴉飛來飛去、直到地上的水都乾了。
And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
他又放出一隻鴿子去、要看看水從地上退了沒有。
Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground;
但遍地上都是水、鴿子找不著落腳之地、就回到方舟挪亞那裡、挪亞伸手把鴿子接進方舟來。
But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.
他又等了七天、再把鴿子從方舟放出去．
And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark;
到了晚上、鴿子回到他那裡、嘴裡叼著一個新擰下來的橄欖葉子、挪亞就知道地上的水退了。
And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth.
他又等了七天、放出鴿子去、鴿子就不再回來了。
And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more.
到挪亞六百零一歲、正月初一日、地上的水都乾了．挪亞撤去方舟的蓋觀看、便見地面上乾了。
And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.
到了二月二十七日、地就都乾了。
And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried.
　神對挪亞說、
And God spake unto Noah, saying,
你和你的妻子、兒子、兒婦、都可以出方舟。
Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.
在你那裡凡有血肉的活物、就是飛鳥、牲畜、和一切爬在地上的昆蟲、都要帶出來、叫他在地上多多滋生、大大興旺。
Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.
於是挪亞和他的妻子、兒子、兒婦、都出來了。
And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him:
一切走獸、昆蟲、飛鳥、和地上所有的動物、各從其類、也都出了方舟。
Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark.
挪亞為耶和華築了一座壇、拿各類潔淨的牲畜、飛鳥、獻在壇上為燔祭。
And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
耶和華聞那馨香之氣、就心裡說、我不再因人的緣故咒詛地、（人從小時心裡懷著惡念）也不再按著我纔行的、滅各種的活物了。
And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.
地還存留的時候、稼穡、寒暑、冬夏、晝夜、就永不停息了。
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.
